{"title": "expression and regulation of cav3_2 t-type calcium channels during inflammatory_hyperalgesia in mouse dorsal root ganglion neurons", "abstract": "the cav3_2 isoform of the t-type calcium channel is expressed in primary sensory neurons of the dorsal root ganglion ( drg ) , and these channels contribute to nociceptive and neuropathic pain in rats . however , there are conflicting reports on the roles of these channels in pain processing in rats and mice . in addition , the function of t-type channels in persistent inflammatory_hyperalgesia is poorly understood . we performed behavioral and comprehensive histochemical analyses to characterize cav3_2-expressing drg neurons and examined the regulation of t-type channels in drgs from c57bl/6 mice with carrageenan-induced inflammatory_hyperalgesia . we show that approximately 20 % of mouse drg neurons express cav3_2 mrna and protein .", "gen_abstract": "the expression and regulation of cav3_2 t-type calcium channels play a crucial role in the development of inflammatory hyperalgesia. in this study, we investigated the expression of these channels in mouse dorsal root ganglion neurons during inflammatory hyperalgesia. our findings indicate that the expression of cav3_2 channels is significantly upregulated in these neurons during inflammation, which suggests their involvement in the development and maintenance of hyperalgesia. moreover, we also investigated the regulatory mechanisms underlying the upregulation of these channels and identified several signaling pathways involved in their regulation. overall, our study provides insights into the role of cav3_2 t-type calcium channels in the pathophysiology of inflammatory hyperalgesia and highlights potential targets for the development of novel pain therapeutics.", "pol_abstract": "the t-type calcium channel isoform cav3_2 is present in primary sensory neurons of the dorsal root ganglion (drg) and contributes to nociceptive and neuropathic pain in rats. however, conflicting reports exist regarding the role of these channels in pain processing in rats and mice, and the function of t-type channels in persistent inflammatory hyperalgesia is poorly understood. to address this, we conducted comprehensive histochemical and behavioral analyses to characterize drg neurons expressing cav3_2 and examined t-type channel regulation in drgs from c57bl/6 mice with carrageenan-induced inflammatory hyperalgesia. our findings reveal that around 20% of mouse drg neurons express cav3_2 mrna and protein.", "mix_abstract": "the cav3_2 isoform of the t-type calcium channel is expressed in primary sensory neurons of the dorsal root ganglion ( drg ) , and these channels contribute to nociceptive and neuropathic pain in rats  despite conflicting reports on the roles of these channels in pain processing among rats and mice, the function of t-type channels in persistent inflammatory hyperalgesia remains poorly understood. to shed light on this, we conducted behavioral and histochemical analyses to characterize drg neurons expressing cav3_2 and studied the regulation of t-type channels in drgs from c57bl/6 mice with carrageenan-induced inflammatory hyperalgesia. our findings reveal that approximately 20% of mouse drg neurons express both cav3_2 mrna and protein."}
{"title": "serum soluble adhesion molecules and markers of systemic_inflammation in elderly diabetic patients with mild cognitive_impairment and depressive_symptoms", "abstract": "the aim of the study was to determine the serum levels of soluble adhesion molecules and hs-crp in elderly diabetics with mild cognitive_impairment ( mci ) alone or with depressive_symptoms . methods . 219 diabetics elders were screened for psychiatric disorders and divided : group 1 , mci without depressive mood ; group 2 , mci with depressive mood ; group 3 , controls . data of biochemical parameters and biomarkers were collected . results . in groups 1 and 2 levels of all biomarkers were significantly higher as compared to controls . the highest level of hs-crp and sicam-1 was detected in group 2 .", "gen_abstract": "this study aimed to investigate the relationship between serum soluble adhesion molecules and markers of systemic inflammation in elderly diabetic patients with mild cognitive impairment and depressive symptoms. a total of [number] participants were recruited and divided into two groups: a diabetic group with mild cognitive impairment and depressive symptoms (n = [number]), and a control group without cognitive impairment or depressive symptoms (n = [number]). serum levels of soluble adhesion molecules and markers of systemic inflammation were measured and compared between the two groups. the results showed that the diabetic group had significantly higher levels of soluble adhesion molecules and markers of systemic inflammation than the control group. additionally, there was a significant positive correlation between the levels of soluble adhesion molecules and markers of systemic inflammation in the diabetic group. these findings suggest that increased levels of soluble adhesion molecules and markers of systemic inflammation may play a role in the development and progression of cognitive impairment and depressive symptoms in elderly diabetic patients. further studies are needed to explore the underlying mechanisms and potential therapeutic targets for this population.", "pol_abstract": "the objective of this investigation was to assess the serum levels of soluble adhesion molecules and hs-crp in elderly individuals with diabetes who have mild cognitive impairment (mci), either alone or with accompanying depressive symptoms. the study involved screening 219 elderly diabetics for psychiatric conditions and dividing them into three groups: group 1 - those with mci but no depressive symptoms; group 2 - those with mci and depressive symptoms; and group 3 - controls. the study collected data on various biochemical parameters and biomarkers. the results showed that the levels of all biomarkers in groups 1 and 2 were significantly higher than those in the control group, with group 2 exhibiting the highest levels of hs-crp and sicam-1.", "mix_abstract": "the objective of this research was to assess the serum concentrations of soluble adhesion molecules and hs-crp in aged individuals with diabetes who have mild cognitive impairment (mci) either independently or in conjunction with symptoms of depression. the methods employed were utilized to achieve this goal.  219 diabetics elders were screened for psychiatric disorders and divided : group 1 , mci without depressive mood ; group 2 , mci with depressive mood ; group 3 , controls  biochemical parameters and biomarkers data were gathered and analyzed. the findings indicated that in groups 1 and 2, the levels of all biomarkers were significantly elevated when compared to the control group. furthermore, group 2 exhibited the highest levels of hs-crp and sicam-1."}
{"title": "dental_erosion in patients with gastroesophageal_reflux_disease ( gerd ) in a sample of patients referred to the motahari clinic , shiraz , iran", "abstract": "statement of problem : systematic reviews of the literature show that the dental_erosion is associated with the gastroesophageal_reflux_disease ( gerd ) .the prevalence of the problem may not be exclusively similar in different countries . purpose : the purpose of this study was to investigate the association of gastro-esophageal reflux disease ( gerd ) with dental_erosion in a sample of iranian population regarding the standing difference in the iranian oral hygiene and diet . material s and method : 140 patients with the average age of 30 to 50 years old comprised the study group . the participants were already eligible for the endoscopic examination , diagnosed by their gastroenterologist .", "gen_abstract": "this study aimed to investigate the prevalence and severity of dental erosion in patients with gastroesophageal reflux disease (gerd) in a sample of patients referred to the motahari clinic in shiraz, iran. a total of [insert number] patients with gerd were included in the study and their dental erosion was assessed using the basic erosive wear examination (bewe) index. the results showed a high prevalence of dental erosion in patients with gerd, with the severity of erosion increasing with the duration and frequency of gerd symptoms. the study highlights the importance of early diagnosis and management of gerd to prevent and reduce dental erosion in affected patients.", "pol_abstract": "problem statement: dental erosion has been found to be linked with gastroesophageal reflux disease (gerd) in systematic reviews of the literature. however, the prevalence of this problem may vary across different countries.\n\npurpose: the aim of this study was to investigate the relationship between gerd and dental erosion in an iranian population, taking into account the differences in oral hygiene and diet in iran.\n\nmaterials and methods: the study group comprised 140 patients with an average age of 30 to 50 years, who were already deemed eligible for endoscopic examination and had been diagnosed by a gastroenterologist.", "mix_abstract": "revised: the problem statement is as follows: based on systematic literature reviews, there is evidence to suggest that dental erosion is linked to gastroesophageal reflux disease (gerd). the prevalence of the problem may not be exclusively similar in different countries  purpose: the purpose of this study was to investigate the association between gastro-esophageal reflux disease (gerd) and dental erosion in a sample of the iranian population, taking into account the significant differences in oral hygiene and diet among iranians.\n\nmaterials and methods: the study group comprised 140 patients with an average age of 30 to 50 years. all participants were eligible for endoscopic examination, as diagnosed by their gastroenterologist."}
{"title": "statistically significant association of the single nucleotide polymorphism ( snp ) rs13181 ( ercc2 ) with predisposition to squamous_cell_carcinomas_of_the_head_and_neck ( scchn ) and breast_cancer in the north indian population", "abstract": "background non-synonymous single nucleotide polymorphisms ( snps ) within vital dna repair genes may cause reduction of activity leaving the genome unrepaired resulting in genomic instability and cancer . materials and methods the present endeavour involved study on the association of the snp rs13181 ( lys751gln/a18911c ) in the nucleotide excision repair ( ner ) pathway gene ercc2 ( excision repair cross-complementing rodent repair deficiency , complementation group 2 ) with the risks of squamous_cell_carcinomas_of_the_head_and_neck ( scchn ) and breast_cancer using a case-control based association study among 685 ( 400 controls and 285 scchn-affected cases ) and 395 ( 227 normal healthy female controls and 168 breast_cancer cases ) ethnically-matched samples , respectively from north india using polymerase chain reaction followed by restriction fragment length polymorphism ( pcr-rflp )", "gen_abstract": "this study investigates the association of the single nucleotide polymorphism (snp) rs13181 in the ercc2 gene with the predisposition to squamous cell carcinomas of the head and neck (scchn) and breast cancer in the north indian population. the results reveal a statistically significant association between the snp rs13181 and increased susceptibility to both scchn and breast cancer in this population. these findings provide important insights into the genetic basis of cancer predisposition and have implications for the development of targeted prevention and treatment strategies in these populations.", "pol_abstract": "this study investigates the association between a specific non-synonymous single nucleotide polymorphism (snp), rs13181 (lys751gln/a18911c), in the ercc2 gene, which is part of the nucleotide excision repair (ner) pathway, and the risk of squamous cell carcinomas of the head and neck (scchn) and breast cancer. the study uses a case-control based association design with 685 samples (285 scchn-affected cases and 400 controls) and 395 samples (168 breast cancer cases and 227 normal healthy female controls) from north india. the method used for genotyping was polymerase chain reaction followed by restriction fragment length polymorphism (pcr-rflp). the snp in vital dna repair genes can reduce activity, leaving the genome unrepaired, which can result in genomic instability and cancer.", "mix_abstract": "the presence of non-synonymous single nucleotide polymorphisms (snps) in important dna repair genes can lead to decreased activity, which may prevent proper repair of the genome and ultimately result in genomic instability and cancer.  materials and methods the present endeavour involved study on the association of the snp rs13181 ( lys751gln/a18911c ) in the nucleotide excision repair ( ner ) pathway gene ercc2 ( excision repair cross-complementing rodent repair deficiency , complementation group 2 ) with the risks of squamous_cell_carcinomas_of_the_head_and_neck ( scchn ) and breast_cancer using a case-control based association study among 685 ( 400 controls and 285 scchn-affected cases ) and 395 ( 227 normal healthy female controls and 168 breast_cancer cases ) ethnically-matched samples , respectively from north india using polymerase chain reaction followed by restriction fragment length polymorphism ( pcr-rflp )"}
{"title": "human umbilical cord mesenchymal stem cell conditioned_medium attenuates renal_fibrosis by reducing inflammation and epithelial-to-mesenchymal transition via the tlr4/nf-\u03bab signaling pathway in vivo and in vitro", "abstract": "background renal_fibrosis is characterized by infiltration of interstitial inflammatory cells and release of inflammatory mediators , activation and proliferation of fibroblasts , and deposition of excessive extracellular matrix ( ecm ) . the aim of this study was to evaluate the effect of human umbilical cord-derived mesenchymal stem cell ( hucmsc ) conditioned_medium ( cm ) on renal tubulointerstitial inflammation and fibrosis . methods renal interstitial fibrosis was prepared in vivo using the unilateral ureteral obstruction ( uuo ) . rats were divided randomly into sham group , sham group with cm , uuo group , and uuo group with cm .", "gen_abstract": "this study explores the potential therapeutic effects of human umbilical cord mesenchymal stem cell (huc-msc) conditioned medium in attenuating renal fibrosis. the research investigates the underlying mechanisms of action, focusing on the reduction of inflammation and epithelial-to-mesenchymal transition (emt) via the toll-like receptor 4 (tlr4)/nf-\u03bab signaling pathway. both in vivo and in vitro experiments were conducted to assess the impact of huc-msc conditioned medium on renal fibrosis. the results suggest that huc-msc conditioned medium can effectively reduce renal fibrosis through the inhibition of inflammation and emt, with the tlr4/nf-\u03bab signaling pathway being a key player in this process. these findings hold great promise for the development of novel therapies for renal fibrosis, leveraging the potential of huc-msc conditioned medium as a treatment option.", "pol_abstract": "the objective of this study was to investigate the impact of conditioned medium (cm) from human umbilical cord-derived mesenchymal stem cells (hucmsc) on renal tubulointerstitial inflammation and fibrosis, which are hallmarks of renal fibrosis. the development of renal fibrosis involves the infiltration of inflammatory cells, the secretion of inflammatory mediators, the activation and proliferation of fibroblasts, and the accumulation of excessive extracellular matrix (ecm). to induce renal interstitial fibrosis, the unilateral ureteral obstruction (uuo) technique was used in rats, which were then randomly assigned to one of four groups: sham group, sham group with cm, uuo group, and uuo group with cm.", "mix_abstract": "in renal fibrosis, there is a presence of interstitial inflammatory cells and the release of inflammatory mediators, along with fibroblast activation and proliferation, and the excessive deposition of extracellular matrix (ecm). this study aimed to assess the impact of conditioned medium (cm) derived from human umbilical cord-derived mesenchymal stem cells (hucmsc) on renal tubulointerstitial inflammation and fibrosis.  methods renal interstitial fibrosis was prepared in vivo using the unilateral ureteral obstruction ( uuo )  the rats were randomly allocated into four groups: sham group, sham group treated with cm, uuo group, and uuo group treated with cm. the meaning of the original sentence is retained in the rewritten version."}
{"title": "low molecular weight fucoidan inhibits tumor angiogenesis through downregulation of hif-1/vegf signaling under hypoxia", "abstract": "activation of hypoxia-induced hypoxia-inducible factors-1 ( hif-1 ) plays a critical role in promoting tumor angiogenesis , growth and metastasis . low molecular weight fucoidan ( lmwf ) is prepared from brown algae , and exhibits anticancer activity . however , whether lmwf attenuates hypoxia-induced angiogenesis in bladder cancer cells and the molecular mechanisms involved remain unclear . this is the first study to demonstrate that lmwf can inhibit hypoxia-stimulated h 2 o 2 formation , hif-1 accumulation and transcriptional activity vascular endothelial growth factor ( vegf ) secretion , and the migration and invasion in hypoxic human bladder cancer cells ( t24 ) cells .", "gen_abstract": "the development and progression of solid tumors depend on the growth of new blood vessels, a process called angiogenesis. hypoxia, or low oxygen levels, is a common feature of many tumors and can stimulate the expression of genes involved in angiogenesis, including hif-1 and vegf. fucoidan, a sulfated polysaccharide extracted from brown seaweed, has been shown to possess various biological activities, including anti-tumor effects. this study aimed to investigate the potential anti-angiogenic effect of low molecular weight fucoidan (lmwf) in a hypoxic environment. the results showed that lmwf treatment significantly inhibited the proliferation, migration, and tube formation of human umbilical vein endothelial cells (huvecs), a key component of blood vessels, under hypoxia. moreover, lmwf downregulated the expression of hif-1 and vegf in huvecs and in a mouse model of lewis lung carcinoma. these findings suggest that lmwf may inhibit tumor angiogenesis by suppressing the hif-1/vegf signaling pathway under hypoxia, highlighting its potential as a therapeutic agent for cancer treatment.", "pol_abstract": "the activation of hypoxia-induced hypoxia-inducible factors-1 (hif-1) is crucial for promoting tumor angiogenesis, growth, and metastasis. low molecular weight fucoidan (lmwf), which is derived from brown algae, has been found to exhibit anticancer activity. however, it is unclear whether lmwf can reduce hypoxia-induced angiogenesis in bladder cancer cells and the associated molecular mechanisms. this study is the first to demonstrate that lmwf can inhibit the formation of h2o2 stimulated by hypoxia, as well as the accumulation and transcriptional activity of hif-1, the secretion of vascular endothelial growth factor (vegf), and the migration and invasion of hypoxic human bladder cancer cells (t24 cells).", "mix_abstract": "the activation of hypoxia-inducible factor-1 (hif-1) induced by hypoxia is crucial in facilitating tumor angiogenesis, growth, and metastasis. low molecular weight fucoidan (lmwf), which is extracted from brown algae, has demonstrated anticancer properties.  however , whether lmwf attenuates hypoxia-induced angiogenesis in bladder cancer cells and the molecular mechanisms involved remain unclear  the findings of this study indicate that lmwf has the ability to suppress the production of h2o2, accumulation of hif-1, transcriptional activity of vascular endothelial growth factor (vegf), as well as the migration and invasion of t24 human bladder cancer cells under hypoxic conditions. this is the first known study to demonstrate these effects of lmwf."}
{"title": "sepsis induced changes of adipokines and cytokines - septic patients compared to morbidly obese patients", "abstract": "background hyperglycemia and insulin resistance frequently occur in critically ill and in morbidly obese ( mo ) patients . both conditions are associated with altered serum levels of cytokines and adipokines . in addition , obesity related alterations in adipokine expression contribute to insulin resistance in metabolic syndrome . in this study we examined the serum adipocytokine profile in critically ill patients , mo patients , and healthy blood donors . methods 33 patients who fulfilled the clinical criteria for severe sepsis or septic shock ( sp ) were prospectively enrolled in this study . a multiplex analysis was performed to evaluate plasma levels of adiponectin , resistin , leptin , active pai-1 , mcp-1 , il-1 alpha , il-6 , il-8 , il-10 , and tnf-alpha in 33 critically ill patients , 37 mo patients and 60 healthy blood donors ( bd", "gen_abstract": "the present study investigated the changes in adipokines and cytokines in septic patients and morbidly obese patients. sepsis is a severe medical condition that often leads to multiple organ failure and mortality, while obesity is a chronic condition associated with a state of low-grade inflammation. the study aimed to compare the levels of adipokines and cytokines in these two groups of patients to better understand the role of these molecules in the pathophysiology of sepsis and obesity. the results revealed significant alterations in the levels of several adipokines and cytokines in septic patients compared to morbidly obese patients, suggesting that these molecules could serve as potential biomarkers for early diagnosis and monitoring of sepsis. the findings of this study provide new insights into the complex interplay between adipose tissue, inflammation, and sepsis.", "pol_abstract": "the prevalence of hyperglycemia and insulin resistance is high in critically ill and morbidly obese (mo) patients, and both conditions are linked to changes in serum cytokines and adipokines. adipokine expression alterations caused by obesity can also lead to insulin resistance in metabolic syndrome. this study investigated the serum adipocytokine profiles of critically ill patients, mo patients, and healthy blood donors. the study enrolled 33 patients who met the clinical criteria for severe sepsis or septic shock, and a multiplex analysis was conducted to assess the plasma levels of various adipocytokines in the three groups: adiponectin, resistin, leptin, active pai-1, mcp-1, il-1 alpha, il-6, il-8, il-10, and tnf-alpha. specifically, the study included 33 critically ill patients, 37 mo patients, and 60 healthy blood donors (bd).", "mix_abstract": "background hyperglycemia and insulin resistance frequently occur in critically ill and in morbidly obese ( mo ) patients  this study investigated the serum profile of adipocytokines in critically ill patients, patients with metabolic obesity, and healthy blood donors. both conditions, metabolic obesity and severe sepsis or septic shock, are linked to changes in cytokine and adipokine levels in the serum. additionally, alterations in adipokine expression due to obesity contribute to insulin resistance in metabolic syndrome. the study enrolled 33 patients who met the clinical criteria for severe sepsis or septic shock.  a multiplex analysis was performed to evaluate plasma levels of adiponectin , resistin , leptin , active pai-1 , mcp-1 , il-1 alpha , il-6 , il-8 , il-10 , and tnf-alpha in 33 critically ill patients , 37 mo patients and 60 healthy blood donors ( bd"}
{"title": "oxidised- and total non-protein bound glutathione and related thiols in gallbladder bile of patients with various gastrointestinal_disorders", "abstract": "background glutathione is a tripeptide composed of glutamate , cysteine and glycine , accomplishing a broad range of vital functions . synthesis of glutathione and cysteine is performed mainly in the liver , whereas most other tissues are supplied with these thiols via sinusoidal efflux into the blood . since canalicular efflux also occurs , thiols may be present in human bile . however , thiol composition of human gallbladder bile is largely unknown , which makes it difficult to speculate on the exact function of thiols in bile . in this study we report on the levels of non-protein bound thiols in gallbladder bile of patients with various gastrointestinal_disorders .", "gen_abstract": "this study aimed to investigate the levels of oxidised- and total non-protein bound glutathione (gsh) and related thiols in the gallbladder bile of patients with different gastrointestinal disorders. gallbladder bile samples were collected from patients undergoing surgery for various gastrointestinal conditions, including gallstones, cholecystitis, and other disorders. the levels of oxidised- and total non-protein bound gsh and related thiols were measured using high-performance liquid chromatography (hplc) and compared among the different patient groups. the results showed that patients with cholecystitis had significantly higher levels of oxidised gsh and related thiols compared to other patient groups, indicating an increase in oxidative stress in the gallbladder. these findings provide valuable insights into the potential role of oxidative stress in the pathogenesis of gastrointestinal disorders, particularly cholecystitis, and highlight the importance of further research to elucidate the underlying mechanisms involved.", "pol_abstract": "the tripeptide glutathione, consisting of glutamate, cysteine, and glycine, serves a variety of crucial functions. while the liver is the primary site for glutathione and cysteine synthesis, other tissues obtain these thiols through sinusoidal efflux into the blood, with canalicular efflux also occurring and potentially leading to their presence in human bile. despite this, the thiol composition of human gallbladder bile remains largely unknown, making it challenging to determine the precise function of thiols in bile. this study aims to fill this knowledge gap by presenting data on the levels of non-protein bound thiols in gallbladder bile from patients with a range of gastrointestinal disorders.", "mix_abstract": "glutathione, which is made up of the amino acids glutamate, cysteine, and glycine, has diverse and essential roles in the body. the liver is primarily responsible for producing glutathione and cysteine, while other tissues receive these sulfur-containing compounds through their release into the bloodstream via sinusoids.  since canalicular efflux also occurs , thiols may be present in human bile  the precise function of thiols in bile is hard to speculate on due to the limited understanding of the thiol composition of human gallbladder bile. this study presents the levels of non-protein bound thiols in gallbladder bile obtained from patients with different gastrointestinal disorders."}
{"title": "antitumor effect and toxicity of free rhodium ( ii ) citrate and rhodium ( ii ) citrate-loaded maghemite nanoparticles in mice bearing breast_cancer", "abstract": "background magnetic fluids containing superparamagnetic iron oxide nanoparticles represent an attractive platform as nanocarriers in chemotherapy . recently , we developed a formulation of maghemite nanoparticles coated with rhodium ( ii ) citrate , which resulted in in vitro cytotoxicity enhanced up to 4.6 times when compared to free rhodium ( ii ) citrate formulation on breast carcinoma cells . in this work , we evaluate the antitumor activity and toxicity induced by these formulations in balb/c mice bearing orthotopic 4t1 breast carcinoma . methods mice were evaluated with regard to the treatments \u2019 toxicity through analyses of hemogram , serum levels of alanine aminotransferase , iron , and creatinine ; dna fragmentation and cell cycle of bone marrow cells ; and liver , kidney and lung", "gen_abstract": "\n\nthis study aimed to evaluate the antitumor effect and toxicity of free rhodium (ii) citrate and rhodium (ii) citrate-loaded maghemite nanoparticles in mice bearing breast cancer. the results demonstrated that both free rhodium (ii) citrate and rhodium (ii) citrate-loaded maghemite nanoparticles showed significant antitumor activity against breast cancer in mice. however, the rhodium (ii) citrate-loaded maghemite nanoparticles showed a lower toxicity profile compared to free rhodium (ii) citrate. these findings suggest that rhodium (ii) citrate-loaded maghemite nanoparticles could be a potential therapeutic option for breast cancer treatment with reduced toxicity.", "pol_abstract": "magnetic fluids containing superparamagnetic iron oxide nanoparticles are an appealing option for nanocarriers in chemotherapy. our recent study focused on a formulation of maghemite nanoparticles coated with rhodium (ii) citrate, which demonstrated an increase in in vitro cytotoxicity up to 4.6 times when compared to the free rhodium (ii) citrate formulation, specifically on breast carcinoma cells. the objective of this research is to assess the antitumor activity and toxicity of these formulations in balb/c mice with orthotopic 4t1 breast carcinoma. to evaluate the toxicity of the treatments, we analyzed hemogram, serum levels of alanine aminotransferase, iron, and creatinine, dna fragmentation, and the cell cycle of bone marrow cells as well as the liver, kidney, and lung.", "mix_abstract": "superparamagnetic iron oxide nanoparticles embedded in magnetic fluids have emerged as a promising medium for drug delivery in chemotherapy. in a recent development, we have created a version of maghemite nanoparticles that are coated with rhodium (ii) citrate. when tested on breast carcinoma cells in vitro, this formulation showed significantly higher cytotoxicity - up to 4.6 times more - than the standard free rhodium (ii) citrate formulation.  in this work , we evaluate the antitumor activity and toxicity induced by these formulations in balb/c mice bearing orthotopic 4t1 breast carcinoma    methods mice were evaluated with regard to the treatments \u2019 toxicity through analyses of hemogram , serum levels of alanine aminotransferase , iron , and creatinine ; dna fragmentation and cell cycle of bone marrow cells ; and liver , kidney and lung"}
{"title": "quantitative proteomics identification of phosphoglycerate_mutase_1 as a novel therapeutic target in hepatocellular_carcinoma", "abstract": "background hepatocellular_carcinoma ( hcc ) is one of the most common malignancies worldwide with poor prognosis due to resistance to conventional chemotherapy and limited efficacy of radiotherapy . there is an urgent need to develop novel biomarkers for early diagnosis , as well as to identify new drug targets for therapeutic interventions . patients and methods 54 paired hcc samples and 21 normal liver tissues were obtained from west china hospital of sichuan university . informed consent was obtained from all the patients or their relatives prior to analysis , and the project was approved by the institutional ethics committee of sichuan university .", "gen_abstract": "\n\nthis study aimed to identify novel therapeutic targets for hepatocellular carcinoma (hcc) using quantitative proteomics. the researchers performed proteomic analysis on hcc tissue samples and identified phosphoglycerate_mutase_1 (pgam1) as a potential therapeutic target. they further investigated the role of pgam1 in hcc by evaluating its expression in hcc cell lines and patient samples. they also performed functional assays to determine the impact of pgam1 inhibition on hcc cell proliferation, migration, and invasion. overall, their findings suggest that pgam1 is a promising therapeutic target for the treatment of hcc.", "pol_abstract": "the prevalence of hepatocellular carcinoma (hcc) is high worldwide and its prognosis is poor due to resistance to conventional chemotherapy and limited efficacy of radiotherapy. developing novel biomarkers for early detection and identifying new drug targets for treatment is urgently needed. this study collected 54 paired hcc samples and 21 normal liver tissues from west china hospital of sichuan university. informed consent was obtained from all patients or their relatives before analysis, and the institutional ethics committee of sichuan university approved the project.", "mix_abstract": "background hepatocellular_carcinoma ( hcc ) is one of the most common malignancies worldwide with poor prognosis due to resistance to conventional chemotherapy and limited efficacy of radiotherapy  the development of new biomarkers for early detection and the discovery of fresh drug targets for treatment interventions are pressing requirements. for the study, 54 paired samples of hcc and 21 normal liver tissues were procured from west china hospital of sichuan university. prior to analysis, all patients or their relatives provided informed consent, and the institutional ethics committee of sichuan university sanctioned the project."}
{"title": "cost-effectiveness of pioglitazone in type 2 diabetes patients with a history of macrovascular_disease : a german perspective", "abstract": "background the aim of this study was to project health-economic outcomes relevant to the german setting for the addition of pioglitazone to existing treatment regimens in patients with type 2 diabetes , evidence of macrovascular_disease and at high risk of cardiovascular events . methods event rates corresponding to macrovascular outcomes from the prospective pioglitazone clinical trial in macrovascular events ( proactive ) study of pioglitazone were used with a modified version of the core diabetes model to simulate outcomes over a 35-year time horizon . direct medical costs were accounted from a healthcare payer perspective in year 2005 values . germany specific costs were applied for patient treatment , hospitalization and management .", "gen_abstract": "this study aims to evaluate the cost-effectiveness of pioglitazone in type 2 diabetes patients with a history of macrovascular disease from a german perspective. the analysis includes a systematic review of published literature, as well as an economic model to estimate the cost-effectiveness of pioglitazone compared to standard of care. the results suggest that pioglitazone is a cost-effective option for treating type 2 diabetes patients with a history of macrovascular disease in germany, as it leads to improved health outcomes and reduced long-term costs compared to standard of care. the findings of this study could inform decision-making and resource allocation for healthcare systems in germany, and potentially other countries with similar patient populations and healthcare systems.", "pol_abstract": "the objective of this research was to estimate the health-economic impact of adding pioglitazone to the current treatment regimen of type 2 diabetes patients in germany who have macrovascular disease and are at high risk of cardiovascular events. the study utilized event rates associated with macrovascular outcomes from the proactive trial of pioglitazone and a modified version of the core diabetes model to project outcomes over a period of 35 years. the analysis was conducted from the perspective of a healthcare payer, using 2005 values to capture direct medical costs. the costs of patient treatment, hospitalization, and management in germany were specifically considered. the meaning of the original abstract has been preserved in this revised version.", "mix_abstract": "the purpose of this research was to predict the health and economic consequences of incorporating pioglitazone into current treatment plans for type 2 diabetes patients in germany who exhibit macrovascular disease and are at an elevated risk for cardiovascular events. the study utilized event rates related to macrovascular outcomes from the pioglitazone clinical trial in macrovascular events (proactive) and a modified version of the core diabetes model to simulate results over a period of 35 years. the analysis considered direct medical expenses from a healthcare payer's viewpoint in the year 2005 value.  germany specific costs were applied for patient treatment , hospitalization and management"}
{"title": "rodent hypoxia\u2013ischemia models for cerebral_palsy research : a systematic review", "abstract": "cerebral_palsy ( cp ) is a complex multifactorial disorder , affecting approximately 2.5\u20133/1000 live term births , and up to 22/1000 prematurely born babies . cp results from injury to the developing brain incurred before , during , or after birth . the most common form of this condition , spastic cp , is primarily associated with injury to the cerebral cortex and subcortical white matter as well as the deep gray matter . the major etiological factors of spastic cp are hypoxia/ischemia ( hi ) , occurring during the last third of pregnancy and around birth age . in addition , inflammation has been found to be an important factor contributing to brain injury , especially in term", "gen_abstract": "this systematic review examines the use of rodent models of hypoxia-ischemia in cerebral palsy research. hypoxia-ischemia is a leading cause of cerebral palsy, a neurological disorder that affects motor function and can result in life-long disabilities. animal models of hypoxia-ischemia are commonly used to study the underlying mechanisms of cerebral palsy and to develop new therapies. the review evaluates the advantages and limitations of rodent models, discusses the most commonly used techniques for inducing hypoxia-ischemia, and analyzes the outcomes measured in previous studies. the review also highlights the potential of rodent models to contribute to the development of new treatments for cerebral palsy. overall, this systematic review provides a comprehensive overview of the use of rodent models of hypoxia-ischemia in cerebral palsy research, with implications for future studies and therapeutic strategies.", "pol_abstract": "cerebral palsy (cp) is a disorder with multiple factors that is complex in nature. it affects around 2.5-3/1000 live term births and up to 22/1000 premature births. the injury to the developing brain can occur before, during, or after birth, leading to cp. the most common type of cp is spastic cp, which is caused mainly by injuries to the cerebral cortex, subcortical white matter, and deep gray matter. the major causes of spastic cp are hypoxia/ischemia (hi), which happens during the last third of pregnancy and around birth. additionally, inflammation is also an important factor that contributes to brain injury, particularly in term births.", "mix_abstract": "cerebral palsy (cp) is a disorder that is multifactorial and complex, and it impacts around 2 in every 1000 individuals. 5\u20133/1000 live term births , and up to 22/1000 prematurely born babies  cerebral palsy (cp) is caused by damage to the developing brain, which can occur before, during, or after birth. the predominant form of cp, spastic cp, is mainly linked to injury in the cerebral cortex, subcortical white matter, and deep gray matter. the primary factors responsible for spastic cp are hypoxia/ischemia (hi), which usually happens during the final third of pregnancy or near the time of birth.  in addition , inflammation has been found to be an important factor contributing to brain injury , especially in term"}
{"title": "steroid responsive encephalopathy associated with autoimmune_thyroiditis ( sreat ) presenting as major_depression", "abstract": "background hashimoto \u2019 s encephalopathy is a neuropsychiatric disease with symptoms of cognitive impairment , stroke-like episodes , seizures , and psychotic or affective symptoms associated with autoimmune_thyroiditis and excellent steroid responsiveness ; therefore , it is also called \u201c steroid responsive encephalopathy associated with autoimmune_thyroiditis \u201d ( sreat ) . case presentation we present the case of a 50-year-old woman who developed a first-onset depressive syndrome with predominant cognitive impairment and inability to work . antidepressive treatment and cognitive behavioral therapy over two years were unsuccessful . neurological examination was unremarkable . serum analysis showed increased thyroid peroxidase and thyroglobulin antibodies .", "gen_abstract": "steroid-responsive encephalopathy associated with autoimmune thyroiditis (sreat) is a rare but important neurological condition that can present with a variety of symptoms, including mood disorders such as major depression. this case study presents the clinical course of a patient with sreat who was initially diagnosed with major depression, but subsequently developed neurological symptoms that suggested an underlying neurological disorder. through a careful diagnostic workup, the patient was ultimately diagnosed with sreat, and treatment with steroids resulted in rapid improvement in both neurological and psychiatric symptoms. this case highlights the importance of considering sreat in the differential diagnosis of patients presenting with mood disorders, particularly when accompanied by neurological symptoms, and the potential for rapid improvement with appropriate treatment.", "pol_abstract": "background:\nhashimoto's encephalopathy is a neuropsychiatric disorder characterized by symptoms such as cognitive impairment, stroke-like episodes, seizures, and psychotic or affective symptoms, and is associated with autoimmune thyroiditis. the disease is known for its excellent responsiveness to steroids, and it is also referred to as \"steroid responsive encephalopathy associated with autoimmune thyroiditis\" (sreat).\n\ncase presentation:\nwe describe a case of a 50-year-old woman who developed her first depressive episode with predominant cognitive impairment, making her unable to work. despite undergoing antidepressive treatment and cognitive behavioral therapy for two years, there was no improvement in her condition. the patient's neurological examination did not show any significant findings. however, serum analysis revealed increased levels of thyroid peroxidase and thyroglobulin antibodies.", "mix_abstract": "background: hashimoto's encephalopathy is a neuropsychiatric disease that presents with symptoms of cognitive impairment, stroke-like episodes, seizures, and psychotic or affective symptoms. it is associated with autoimmune thyroiditis and is known for its excellent response to steroids. as a result, it is often referred to as \"steroid-responsive encephalopathy associated with autoimmune thyroiditis\" (sreat).  case presentation we present the case of a 50-year-old woman who developed a first-onset depressive syndrome with predominant cognitive impairment and inability to work  the antidepressant treatment and cognitive behavioral therapy administered over the course of two years were ineffective. the neurological examination did not reveal any notable abnormalities. however, serum analysis indicated elevated levels of thyroid peroxidase and thyroglobulin antibodies."}
{"title": "ergocalciferol and microcirculatory function in chronic_kidney_disease and concomitant vitamin_d_deficiency : an exploratory , double blind , randomised controlled trial", "abstract": "background and objectives vitamin_d_deficiency and endothelial dysfunction are non-traditional risk factors for cardiovascular events in chronic_kidney_disease . previous studies in chronic_kidney_disease have failed to demonstrate a beneficial effect of vitamin d on arterial stiffness , left ventricular mass and inflammation but none have assessed the effect of vitamin d on microcirculatory endothelial function . study design we conducted a randomised controlled trial of 38 patients with non diabetic chronic_kidney_disease stage 3\u20134 and concomitant vitamin_d_deficiency ( < 16 ng/dl ) who received oral ergocalciferol ( 50,000 iu weekly for one month followed by 50,000 iu monthly ) or placebo over 6 months .", "gen_abstract": "this exploratory, double-blind, randomized controlled trial investigates the potential relationship between ergocalciferol and microcirculatory function in patients with chronic kidney disease (ckd) and concomitant vitamin d deficiency. the study aims to evaluate whether ergocalciferol supplementation can improve microcirculatory function in these patients, as well as assess the safety and tolerability of the treatment. the trial will involve a randomized group of participants with ckd and vitamin d deficiency who will receive either ergocalciferol or a placebo for a period of time. the study's findings may contribute to a better understanding of the potential benefits of ergocalciferol for microcirculatory function in ckd patients with vitamin d deficiency.", "pol_abstract": "the aim of this study was to investigate the impact of vitamin d on microcirculatory endothelial function in patients with non-diabetic chronic kidney disease who also had vitamin d deficiency. vitamin d deficiency and endothelial dysfunction are considered non-traditional risk factors for cardiovascular events in chronic kidney disease. previous studies in this area have failed to show the benefits of vitamin d on arterial stiffness, left ventricular mass, and inflammation, but none have assessed its effect on microcirculatory endothelial function. the study design involved a randomized controlled trial of 38 patients who received either oral ergocalciferol or a placebo over a period of 6 months. the patients had chronic kidney disease stage 3-4 and vitamin d deficiency with a level of less than 16 ng/dl. the treatment regimen consisted of 50,000 iu of ergocalciferol weekly for one month followed by 50,000 iu monthly.", "mix_abstract": "the study aims to investigate the impact of vitamin d on microcirculatory endothelial function in patients with non-diabetic chronic kidney disease (ckd) stage 3-4 and concomitant vitamin d deficiency (less than 16 ng/dl). vitamin d deficiency and endothelial dysfunction are non-traditional risk factors for cardiovascular events in ckd patients. although previous studies have failed to demonstrate the beneficial effects of vitamin d on arterial stiffness, left ventricular mass, and inflammation in ckd patients, this study employs a randomized controlled trial design to investigate the effects of oral ergocalciferol (50,000 iu weekly for one month followed by 50,000 iu monthly) or placebo over 6 months on the study participants."}
{"title": "sildenafil , a cyclic_gmp phosphodiesterase_inhibitor , induces microglial modulation after focal ischemia in the neonatal mouse brain", "abstract": "background perinatal ischemic stroke is the most frequent form of cerebral infarction in neonates ; however , evidence-based treatments are currently lacking . we have previously demonstrated a beneficial effect of sildenafil citrate , a pde-5 inhibitor , on stroke lesion size in neonatal rat pups . the present study investigated the effects of sildenafil in a neonatal mouse stroke model on ( 1 ) hemodynamic changes and ( 2 ) regulation of astrocyte/microglia-mediated neuroinflammation . methods ischemia was induced in c57bl/6 mice on postnatal ( p ) day 9 by permanent middle cerebral artery occlusion ( pmcao ) , and followed by either pbs or sildenafil intraperitoneal ( i.p .", "gen_abstract": "\n\nthe present study investigates the effects of sildenafil, a cyclic_gmp phosphodiesterase_inhibitor, on microglial modulation after focal ischemia in the neonatal mouse brain. the researchers aimed to determine whether sildenafil could influence microglial activation and polarization in the peri-infarct region of the neonatal brain, leading to improved functional outcomes. the results demonstrate that sildenafil treatment after focal ischemia induces microglial modulation, resulting in reduced neuroinflammation and improved neurological function. the findings suggest that sildenafil may be a potential therapeutic agent for the treatment of neonatal brain ischemia.", "pol_abstract": "background:\nperinatal ischemic stroke is the most common type of cerebral infarction in neonates. however, there is currently a lack of evidence-based treatments available. in a previous study, we demonstrated the beneficial effect of sildenafil citrate, a pde-5 inhibitor, on reducing stroke lesion size in neonatal rat pups. in the present study, we investigated the effects of sildenafil in a neonatal mouse stroke model on (1) hemodynamic changes and (2) regulation of astrocyte/microglia-mediated neuroinflammation.\n\nmethods:\nischemia was induced in c57bl/6 mice on postnatal day 9 by permanent middle cerebral artery occlusion (pmcao), followed by either pbs or sildenafil intraperitoneal (i.p.) administration.", "mix_abstract": "background perinatal ischemic stroke is the most frequent form of cerebral infarction in neonates ; however , evidence-based treatments are currently lacking  previously, we have demonstrated the positive impact of sildenafil citrate, a pde-5 inhibitor, on the size of stroke lesions in neonatal rat pups. in the present study, we aimed to investigate the effects of sildenafil on a neonatal mouse stroke model in terms of (1) hemodynamic changes and (2) the regulation of neuroinflammation mediated by astrocytes and microglia. to induce ischemia, we performed permanent middle cerebral artery occlusion (pmcao) on postnatal day 9 c57bl/6 mice, followed by intraperitoneal (i.p.) administration of either pbs or sildenafil."}
{"title": "docetaxel , cisplatin and fluorouracil ( dcf ) regimen compared with non-taxane-containing palliative chemotherapy for gastric_carcinoma : a systematic review and meta-analysis", "abstract": "background gastric_carcinoma ( gc ) is one of the highest cancer-mortality diseases with a high incidence rate in asia . for surgically unfit but medically fit patients , palliative chemotherapy is the main treatment . the chemotherapy regimen of docetaxel , cisplatin and 5-fluorouracil ( dcf ) has been used to treat the advanced stage or metastatic gc . it is necessary to compare effectiveness and toxicities of dcf regimen with non-taxane-containing palliative chemotherapy for gc . methods pubmed , embase , cochrane central register of controlled trials and china national knowledge infrastructure databases were searched to select relative randomized controlled trials ( rcts ) comparing dcf to non-taxane-containing chemotherapy for patients with palliatively resected , unresectable , recurrent or metastatic", "gen_abstract": "this systematic review and meta-analysis aimed to evaluate the efficacy and safety of the docetaxel, cisplatin, and fluorouracil (dcf) regimen compared to non-taxane-containing palliative chemotherapy for gastric carcinoma. a thorough search of relevant databases was conducted, and a total of 10 studies were included in the analysis. the results showed that the dcf regimen had a significantly higher objective response rate and longer overall survival compared to non-taxane-containing regimens. however, the dcf regimen was also associated with more frequent and severe adverse events. these findings suggest that the dcf regimen may be a more effective treatment option for advanced gastric carcinoma, but careful monitoring and management of adverse events are necessary.", "pol_abstract": "gastric carcinoma (gc) is a highly fatal form of cancer that has a high incidence rate in asia. palliative chemotherapy with the docetaxel, cisplatin and 5-fluorouracil (dcf) regimen is the primary treatment for medically fit but surgically unfit patients with advanced or metastatic gc. to evaluate the efficacy and side effects of the dcf regimen compared to non-taxane-based palliative chemotherapy for gc, we conducted a systematic search of pubmed, embase, cochrane central register of controlled trials, and china national knowledge infrastructure databases for relevant randomized controlled trials (rcts) involving patients with palliatively resected, unresectable, recurrent, or metastatic gc.", "mix_abstract": "gastric carcinoma (gc) is a highly fatal cancer with a high occurrence rate in asia. palliative chemotherapy is the primary form of treatment for patients who are medically fit but not suitable for surgery.  the chemotherapy regimen of docetaxel , cisplatin and 5-fluorouracil ( dcf ) has been used to treat the advanced stage or metastatic gc  comparing the effectiveness and toxicity of the dcf regimen with palliative chemotherapy that does not contain taxanes is necessary for gc.  methods pubmed , embase , cochrane central register of controlled trials and china national knowledge infrastructure databases were searched to select relative randomized controlled trials ( rcts ) comparing dcf to non-taxane-containing chemotherapy for patients with palliatively resected , unresectable , recurrent or metastatic"}
{"title": "population pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of cysteamine in nephropathic_cystinosis patients", "abstract": "background nephropathic_cystinosis is an autosomal recessive disorder resulting in an impaired transport of cystine trough the lysosomal membrane causing an accumulation of free cystine in lysosomes . the only specific treatment for nephropathic_cystinosis is cysteamine bitartrate . this study was aimed to describe the relationship between cysteamine plasma concentrations and white blood cell cystine levels , and to simulate an optimized administration scheme to improve the management of patients with cystinosis . methods cysteamine and cystine concentrations were measured in 69 nephropathic_cystinosis patients . a total of 250 cysteamine plasma concentrations and 243 intracellular cystine concentrations were used to perform a population pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic analysis .", "gen_abstract": "this study investigates the population pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of cysteamine in patients with nephropathic cystinosis. cysteamine is an essential drug used in the treatment of cystinosis, a rare genetic disorder that affects various organs, including the kidneys. the aim of the study is to develop a model to better understand how cysteamine is absorbed, distributed, metabolized, and eliminated in this patient population. the study also examines the relationship between drug exposure and its effect on clinical outcomes. the results of this study will provide valuable insights into the optimal dosing of cysteamine in nephropathic cystinosis patients to ensure its therapeutic efficacy while minimizing the risk of adverse effects.", "pol_abstract": "nephropathic cystinosis is a genetic disorder that causes the accumulation of cystine in lysosomes due to impaired transport through the lysosomal membrane. cysteamine bitartrate is the only known treatment for this disorder. the purpose of this study was to investigate the relationship between cysteamine plasma concentrations and white blood cell cystine levels, and to develop an optimized administration schedule for patients with cystinosis. the study involved measuring cysteamine and cystine concentrations in 69 nephropathic_cystinosis patients. a population pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic analysis was conducted using 250 cysteamine plasma concentrations and 243 intracellular cystine concentrations.", "mix_abstract": "background nephropathic_cystinosis is an autosomal recessive disorder resulting in an impaired transport of cystine trough the lysosomal membrane causing an accumulation of free cystine in lysosomes  nephropathic cystinosis is a medical condition that can only be treated with cysteamine bitartrate. a study was conducted to investigate the correlation between the levels of cysteamine in the bloodstream and the levels of cystine in white blood cells. additionally, the study aimed to develop an optimal dosing strategy to improve the management of patients with cystinosis. the research involved measuring cysteamine and cystine concentrations in 69 individuals with nephropathic cystinosis. a population pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic analysis was performed using 250 cysteamine plasma concentrations and 243 intracellular cystine concentrations."}
{"title": "immunohistochemical expression of dcun1d1 in non-small_cell_lung_carcinoma : its relation to brain_metastasis", "abstract": "purpose non-small_cell_lung_carcinoma ( nsclc ) comprises 75-85 % of all lung cancers , and approximately 25 % of all nsclc patients develop brain metastasis . there are no reliable markers for predicting in which patients this metastasis will occur . dcun1d1 , also known as squamous cell carcinoma-related oncogene , is associated with tumor progression and poor outcomes in nsclc . the objective of this study was to investigate the role of dcun1d1 expression in cases of brain metastasis due to nsclc . materials and methods primary tumor samples from a total of 71 cases of nsclc , either with ( n=40 ) or without ( n=31 ) brain metastasis , were evaluated for dcun1d1 expression by immunohistochemistry analysis .", "gen_abstract": "this study aimed to investigate the expression of dcun1d1, a protein involved in neddylation, in non-small cell lung carcinoma (nsclc) and its potential association with brain metastasis. immunohistochemical analysis was performed on nsclc tissue samples from patients with and without brain metastasis. the results showed that dcun1d1 expression was significantly higher in nsclc tissue samples from patients with brain metastasis compared to those without brain metastasis. furthermore, high dcun1d1 expression was found to be a significant predictor of brain metastasis in nsclc patients. these findings suggest that dcun1d1 may play a role in the development of brain metastasis in nsclc and could potentially serve as a biomarker for predicting the risk of brain metastasis in nsclc patients.", "pol_abstract": "the aim of this study was to examine the potential of dcun1d1 expression as a marker for brain metastasis in non-small_cell_lung_carcinoma (nsclc) patients, for whom there are currently no reliable predictors. nsclc accounts for 75-85% of all lung cancers, and a quarter of nsclc patients develop brain metastasis. dcun1d1, a gene associated with tumor progression and poor outcomes in nsclc, was evaluated in 71 nsclc cases, 40 of which had brain metastasis, using immunohistochemistry analysis of primary tumor samples.", "mix_abstract": "purpose non-small_cell_lung_carcinoma ( nsclc ) comprises 75-85 % of all lung cancers , and approximately 25 % of all nsclc patients develop brain metastasis  it is difficult to predict which patients will experience metastasis without reliable markers. in nsclc, dcun1d1, also known as squamous cell carcinoma-related oncogene, is linked to tumor progression and unfavorable outcomes. this study aimed to examine the impact of dcun1d1 expression on nsclc-related brain metastasis. immunohistochemistry analysis was performed on primary tumor samples from 71 nsclc cases (40 with and 31 without brain metastasis) to assess dcun1d1 expression."}
{"title": "impaired fasting plasma glucose and type 2 diabetes are related to the risk of out-of-hospital sudden_cardiac_death and all-cause mortality", "abstract": "objective the aim of the study was to determine whether impaired fasting plasma glucose ( fpg ) and type 2 diabetes may be risk factors for sudden_cardiac_death ( scd ) . research design and methods this prospective study was based on 2,641 middle-aged men 42\u201360 years of age at baseline . impaired fpg level ( \u22655.6 mmol/l ) among nondiabetic subjects ( 501 men ) was defined according to the established guidelines , and the group with type 2 diabetes included subjects ( 159 men ) who were treated with oral hypoglycemic agents , insulin therapy , and/or diet . results during the 19-year follow-up , a total of 190 scds occurred .", "gen_abstract": "this study investigated the relationship between impaired fasting plasma glucose (ifg), type 2 diabetes (t2d), and the risk of out-of-hospital sudden cardiac death (ohscd) and all-cause mortality. using a large cohort of participants, the study found that both ifg and t2d were associated with an increased risk of ohscd and all-cause mortality. these findings suggest that individuals with ifg and t2d may be at a higher risk of cardiovascular disease and mortality, highlighting the importance of managing blood glucose levels for long-term health outcomes.", "pol_abstract": "the objective of this study was to investigate whether impaired fasting plasma glucose (fpg) and type 2 diabetes are potential risk factors for sudden cardiac death (scd). the research design involved a prospective study of 2,641 men aged 42-60 years at the beginning of the study. the study determined impaired fpg levels (\u22655.6 mmol/l) in 501 nondiabetic men according to established guidelines, while 159 men with type 2 diabetes were included and treated with oral hypoglycemic agents, insulin therapy, and/or diet. during the 19-year follow-up period, there were a total of 190 incidents of scd.", "mix_abstract": "the objective of this study was to investigate whether there is a correlation between impaired fasting plasma glucose (fpg), type 2 diabetes, and the likelihood of experiencing sudden cardiac death (scd).  research design and methods this prospective study was based on 2,641 middle-aged men 42\u201360 years of age at baseline  during a 19-year follow-up, a total of 190 sudden cardiac deaths (scds) were recorded. impaired fpg levels, defined according to established guidelines as being equal to or greater than 5.6 mmol/l, were observed in 501 nondiabetic male subjects, while the group with type 2 diabetes comprised 159 men who were treated with oral hypoglycemic agents, insulin therapy, and/or diet."}
{"title": "prospective genetic profiling of squamous cell lung_cancer and adenosquamous_carcinoma in japanese patients by multitarget assays", "abstract": "background despite considerable recent progress in the treatment of lung adenocarcinoma , there has been little progress in the development of efficacious molecular targeted therapies for squamous cell lung_cancer . in addition to the recent comprehensive genome-wide characterization of squamous cell lung_cancer , it is also important to genotype this form of cancer . we therefore conducted the shizuoka lung_cancer mutation study to analyze driver mutations in patients with thoracic malignancies . here we report the results of genotyping in patients with squamous cell lung_cancer . methods based on the biobanking system , in conjunction with the clinic and pathology lab , we developed a genotyping panel designed to assess 24 mutations in 10 genes ( egfr , kras , braf , pik3ca , nras , mek1 , akt1 , pten , her2 and ddr2 ) , egfr , met , pik3ca , fgfr1 and fgfr2 copy numbers , and eml4-alk and ros1 translocations , using pyrosequencing plus capillary electrophoresis , quantitative polymerase chain reaction ( pcr ) and reverse-transcription pcr ,", "gen_abstract": "this study aims to investigate the genetic profile of squamous cell lung cancer and adenosquamous carcinoma in japanese patients using multitarget assays. the study will prospectively analyze the genetic alterations in a variety of cancer-related genes in tissue samples obtained from patients diagnosed with these types of lung cancer. the results of this study have the potential to contribute to the development of personalized treatment strategies and improved clinical outcomes for japanese patients with these types of lung cancer.", "pol_abstract": "background:\ndespite the recent progress made in treating lung adenocarcinoma, little has been achieved in developing effective molecular targeted therapies for squamous cell lung cancer. it is crucial to genotype this type of cancer in addition to the recent comprehensive genome-wide characterization of squamous cell lung cancer. therefore, we conducted the shizuoka lung cancer mutation study to analyze driver mutations in patients with thoracic malignancies, and in this report, we present the results of genotyping in patients with squamous cell lung cancer.\n\nmethods:\nwe developed a genotyping panel to evaluate 24 mutations in 10 genes (egfr, kras, braf, pik3ca, nras, mek1, akt1, pten, her2, and ddr2), as well as copy numbers of egfr, met, pik3ca, fgfr1, and fgfr2, and translocations of eml4-alk and ros1, using pyrosequencing, capillary electrophoresis, quantitative polymerase chain reaction (pcr), and reverse-transcription pcr. this panel was developed based on our biobanking system in conjunction with the clinic and pathology lab.", "mix_abstract": "background:\ndespite significant advancements in the treatment of lung adenocarcinoma, there has been little improvement in the development of effective molecular targeted therapies for squamous cell lung cancer. along with the recent comprehensive genome-wide characterization of squamous cell lung cancer, it is also crucial to genotype this type of cancer.\n\n(note: i made some minor changes to improve the clarity and flow of the text.)  we therefore conducted the shizuoka lung_cancer mutation study to analyze driver mutations in patients with thoracic malignancies  the findings of genotyping among individuals diagnosed with squamous cell lung cancer are presented in this report.  methods based on the biobanking system , in conjunction with the clinic and pathology lab , we developed a genotyping panel designed to assess 24 mutations in 10 genes ( egfr , kras , braf , pik3ca , nras , mek1 , akt1 , pten , her2 and ddr2 ) , egfr , met , pik3ca , fgfr1 and fgfr2 copy numbers , and eml4-alk and ros1 translocations , using pyrosequencing plus capillary electrophoresis , quantitative polymerase chain reaction ( pcr ) and reverse-transcription pcr ,"}
{"title": "innegligible musculoskeletal_disorders caused by zoledronic_acid in adjuvant breast_cancer treatment : a meta-analysis", "abstract": "background zoledronic_acid ( zol ) is widely used for preventing bone loss in early breast_cancer patients . however , the adverse effects caused by zol itself should not be neglected . musculoskeletal_disorders were common after zol administration and distressing to the patients . up to now , no precise estimation of musculoskeletal_disorders has been made . methods relevant randomized clinical trials were selected by searching the electronic database pubmed , and a meta-analysis was conducted . results four trials reported musculoskeletal_disorders of zol treatment versus no zol , including 2684 patients treated with zol and 2712 patients without zol treatment .", "gen_abstract": "this meta-analysis aims to investigate the incidence of musculoskeletal disorders caused by zoledronic acid in adjuvant breast cancer treatment. zoledronic acid is a commonly used medication to prevent bone loss and fractures in breast cancer patients who undergo chemotherapy. however, recent studies have suggested that it may also cause musculoskeletal disorders, such as bone and joint pain, muscle weakness, and osteonecrosis of the jaw. through a systematic review and meta-analysis of relevant studies, this paper seeks to quantify the risk of musculoskeletal disorders associated with zoledronic acid and provide insight into potential preventative measures and management strategies for patients undergoing adjuvant breast cancer treatment.", "pol_abstract": "the use of zoledronic acid (zol) is widespread among early breast cancer patients to prevent bone loss. however, the negative effects of zol on patients, particularly in terms of musculoskeletal disorders, cannot be ignored. these disorders are common after zol administration and can be distressing for patients. despite this, no accurate estimation of the prevalence of musculoskeletal disorders associated with zol treatment has been conducted to date. in this study, relevant randomized clinical trials were selected through a pubmed search, and a meta-analysis was performed. the results of the meta-analysis included data from four trials, which reported on the incidence of musculoskeletal disorders in patients treated with zol (n=2684) and those not treated with zol (n=2712).", "mix_abstract": "background zoledronic_acid ( zol ) is widely used for preventing bone loss in early breast_cancer patients  despite the benefits of zol, it is important to consider its potential negative impacts. one such impact is the occurrence of musculoskeletal disorders, which can cause significant distress to patients. however, the exact prevalence of these disorders following zol treatment is still unknown. to address this, we conducted a meta-analysis of relevant randomized clinical trials identified through a search of the electronic database pubmed. our analysis included four trials, involving a total of 2684 patients treated with zol and 2712 patients who did not receive zol treatment, which reported on the occurrence of musculoskeletal disorders."}
{"title": "early detection of varicella-zoster_virus ( vzv ) -specific t-cells before seroconversion in primary varicella_infection : case report", "abstract": "here we report the case of a 54-year old , immunocompetent german patient with primary varicella whose varicella-zoster_virus ( vzv ) -specific t-cell responses could be detected early in infection and before the onset of seroconversion . this case demonstrates that the detection of vzv-specific t-cells may under certain circumstances support the diagnosis of a primary varicella_infection , as for example in cases of atypical or subclinical varicella or in the absence of detectable vzv dna in plasma .", "gen_abstract": "this case report describes the early detection of varicella-zoster virus (vzv)-specific t-cells in a patient with primary varicella infection, before seroconversion. the patient was a previously healthy 7-year-old boy who presented with a rash and fever. vzv infection was confirmed by polymerase chain reaction (pcr) analysis of a skin lesion sample. the patient's peripheral blood mononuclear cells (pbmcs) were then analyzed for vzv-specific t-cell responses using flow cytometry and intracellular cytokine staining. remarkably, vzv-specific t-cells were detected in the patient's pbmcs before seroconversion, suggesting that t-cell responses may occur earlier than antibody responses in primary vzv infection. this case report highlights the potential utility of t-cell responses in the early diagnosis of vzv infection and the need for further studies to elucidate the role of t-cells in primary vzv infection.", "pol_abstract": "in this report, we present the case of a 54-year-old german patient with primary varicella who was immunocompetent. the patient's varicella-zoster virus (vzv)-specific t-cell responses were detectable at an early stage of the infection, even before the onset of seroconversion. this case highlights the fact that the identification of vzv-specific t-cells can aid in diagnosing primary varicella infection in specific scenarios, such as in cases of atypical or subclinical varicella or when vzv dna cannot be detected in plasma. the overall meaning of the abstract remains unchanged.", "mix_abstract": "our report concerns a 54-year-old german patient who was immunocompetent and had primary varicella. we were able to detect the patient's varicella-zoster virus (vzv) specific t-cell responses early in the infection, before the patient had seroconverted. this finding suggests that detecting vzv-specific t-cells may help diagnose primary varicella infections, especially in cases of atypical or subclinical varicella, or when vzv dna is not detectable in plasma."}
{"title": "counteraction of reactive_oxygen_species and determination of antibacterial efficacy of proanthocyanidin and lycopene when mixed with calcium_hydroxide and chlorhexidine mixture : an", "abstract": "aim : the objective of the study was to determine the neutralizing effect of proanthocyanidin ( grape seed extract ) and lycopene ( tomato extract ) on reactive_oxygen_species ( ros ) generated by the mixture when used as an intracanal medicament . the study also evaluated the effect of proanthocyanidin and lycopene on the antibacterial efficacy of a mixture of chlorhexidine ( chx ) and calcium_hydroxide [ ca ( oh ) 2 ] against enterococcus feacalis . materials and methods : four sample groups were prepared as follows . group i : 2 % chx gluconate ( control group ) and group ii : a mixture of 125 mg of ca ( oh ) 2 with 2 % chx gluconate", "gen_abstract": "in this study, the counteraction of reactive oxygen species (ros) and the antibacterial efficacy of proanthocyanidin and lycopene, when combined with calcium hydroxide and chlorhexidine mixture, were investigated. the objective was to determine whether the addition of these natural compounds to the root canal filling material could improve its antimicrobial properties. the results showed that the mixture of calcium hydroxide and chlorhexidine with proanthocyanidin and lycopene exhibited a significant reduction in ros levels and improved antibacterial activity against various bacterial strains compared to the control group. these findings suggest that the addition of natural compounds to root canal filling materials can potentially enhance their antibacterial properties and aid in the successful treatment of endodontic infections.", "pol_abstract": "the aim of this study was to assess the impact of proanthocyanidin (extracted from grape seeds) and lycopene (extracted from tomatoes) on reactive oxygen species (ros) generated by an intracanal medicament mixture. additionally, the study examined the effect of proanthocyanidin and lycopene on the antibacterial properties of a mixture of chlorhexidine (chx) and calcium hydroxide [ca(oh)2] against enterococcus faecalis. four groups of samples were prepared, including a control group with 2% chx gluconate (group i) and a group with a mixture of 125 mg of ca(oh)2 with 2% chx gluconate (group ii).", "mix_abstract": "aim: the aim of this study was to determine the neutralizing effect of proanthocyanidin (grape seed extract) and lycopene (tomato extract) on reactive oxygen species (ros) generated by a mixture used as an intracanal medicament. the study also aimed to evaluate the effect of proanthocyanidin and lycopene on the antibacterial efficacy of a mixture of chlorhexidine (chx) and calcium hydroxide [ca(oh)2] against enterococcus faecalis.\n\nmaterials and methods: four sample groups were prepared as follows:  group i : 2 % chx gluconate ( control group ) and group ii : a mixture of 125 mg of ca ( oh ) 2 with 2 % chx gluconate"}
{"title": "anti-epidermal_growth_factor_receptor ( egfr ) antibodies overcome resistance of ovarian_cancer cells to targeted therapy and natural cytotoxicity", "abstract": "the poor outcome of advanced ovarian_cancer under conventional therapy stimulated the exploration of new strategies to improve therapeutic efficacy . in our preclinical in vitro study we investigated a combination of targeted therapy and immunotherapy . combination treatment with the anti-egfr-antibody cetuximab , related tyrosine kinase inhibitors ( tki ) and cytolytic nk cells was tested against different ovarian_cancer cell lines and primary tumour cells cultured from patient ascites . we found that selected ovarian_cancer cells were susceptible to cetuximab and anti-egfr-tki-treatment , while the majority of cell lines were resistant to single or combination treatment with both substances . in addition , most ovarian_cancer cells displayed low susceptibility to natural cytotoxicity of unstimulated nk cells .", "gen_abstract": "\n\nthis study explores the efficacy of anti-epidermal growth factor receptor (egfr) antibodies in overcoming the resistance of ovarian cancer cells to targeted therapy and natural cytotoxicity. the authors demonstrate that anti-egfr antibodies effectively inhibit the growth of ovarian cancer cells in vitro and in vivo. furthermore, the antibodies were found to sensitize the cancer cells to targeted therapy, thus enhancing its therapeutic potential. these findings suggest that anti-egfr antibodies may represent a promising strategy for improving the treatment of ovarian cancer, which is known for its resistance to conventional therapies.", "pol_abstract": "due to the poor outcomes of conventional therapy for advanced ovarian cancer, there is a need to explore new strategies for improving therapeutic efficacy. in this preclinical in vitro study, we investigated a combination of targeted therapy and immunotherapy. specifically, we tested the effectiveness of a combination treatment involving the anti-egfr antibody cetuximab, related tyrosine kinase inhibitors (tki), and cytolytic nk cells against different ovarian cancer cell lines and primary tumor cells cultured from patient ascites. our results showed that while some ovarian cancer cells were susceptible to cetuximab and anti-egfr-tki treatment, the majority of cell lines were resistant to single or combination treatment with both substances. additionally, we found that most ovarian cancer cells displayed low susceptibility to the natural cytotoxicity of unstimulated nk cells.", "mix_abstract": "due to the unsatisfactory results of traditional treatment for advanced ovarian cancer, there has been an impetus to seek new approaches to enhance therapeutic effectiveness. in our preclinical study conducted in vitro, we examined a fusion of targeted therapy and immunotherapy.  combination treatment with the anti-egfr-antibody cetuximab , related tyrosine kinase inhibitors ( tki ) and cytolytic nk cells was tested against different ovarian_cancer cell lines and primary tumour cells cultured from patient ascites  it was discovered that certain ovarian cancer cells were vulnerable to treatment with cetuximab and anti-egfr-tki, whereas the majority of cell lines did not respond to either substance alone or in combination. furthermore, the majority of ovarian cancer cells demonstrated low sensitivity to the natural cytotoxicity of unstimulated nk cells."}
{"title": "epidermal_growth_factor_receptor mutation status in the treatment of non-small_cell_lung_cancer : lessons learned", "abstract": "advances in oncology research have led to identification of tumor-specific biomarkers , some of which are important predictive indicators and ideal targets for novel therapeutics . one such biomarker in non-small_cell_lung_cancer ( nsclc ) is the epidermal_growth_factor_receptor ( egfr ) . patients with nsclc who harbor an activating egfr mutation show a more favorable response to treatment with an egfr inhibitor , such as gefitinib , erlotinib , or afatinib , than to chemotherapy . the prevalence of egfr mutations in east asian patients is higher than that in other populations , and in some clinical settings , patients have been treated with egfr inhibitors based on clinicopathologic characteristics with no information on egfr status .", "gen_abstract": "the epidermal growth factor receptor (egfr) mutation status has become an important biomarker in the treatment of non-small-cell lung cancer (nsclc). in recent years, the development of egfr-targeted therapies has led to significant improvements in the management of nsclc. this abstract highlights the lessons learned from the use of egfr mutation testing in nsclc, including the impact on treatment decisions and patient outcomes. it also discusses the challenges and limitations of egfr-targeted therapy and the need for continued research to identify new therapeutic options and overcome resistance mechanisms. overall, this abstract underscores the importance of egfr mutation testing in nsclc management and the ongoing efforts to optimize treatment strategies for this disease.", "pol_abstract": "the progress made in oncology research has enabled the discovery of biomarkers that are specific to tumors. these biomarkers can serve as crucial predictive indicators and targets for innovative therapeutic approaches. in non-small cell lung cancer (nsclc), one such biomarker is the epidermal growth factor receptor (egfr). patients with nsclc who possess an activating egfr mutation display a more favorable response to treatment with egfr inhibitors, such as gefitinib, erlotinib, or afatinib, than to chemotherapy. the prevalence of egfr mutations is higher in east asian patients than in other populations. consequently, in some clinical settings, patients have been treated with egfr inhibitors based on clinicopathologic characteristics, without information on egfr status.", "mix_abstract": "in the field of oncology, progress in research has enabled the recognition of unique biomarkers specific to tumors. these biomarkers serve as valuable predictive indicators and are promising targets for innovative therapeutic approaches.  one such biomarker in non-small_cell_lung_cancer ( nsclc ) is the epidermal_growth_factor_receptor ( egfr )  individuals diagnosed with non-small cell lung cancer (nsclc) and an activating mutation of the egfr gene are more likely to benefit from treatment with an egfr inhibitor, such as gefitinib, erlotinib, or afatinib, compared to chemotherapy. the frequency of egfr mutations is greater in east asian patients than in other populations. in certain clinical situations, patients have received egfr inhibitor therapy based on clinicopathologic characteristics without knowledge of their egfr mutation status."}
{"title": "glutaminase-containing microvesicles from hiv-1-infected macrophages and immune-activated microglia induce neurotoxicity", "abstract": "background hiv-1-infected and/or immune-activated microglia and macrophages are pivotal in the pathogenesis of hiv-1-associated neurocognitive disorders ( hand ) . glutaminase , a metabolic enzyme that facilitates glutamate generation , is upregulated and may play a pathogenic role in hand . our previous studies have demonstrated that glutaminase is released to the extracellular fluid during hiv-1 infection and neuroinflammation . however , key molecular mechanisms that regulate glutaminase release remain unknown . recent advances in understanding intercellular trafficking have identified microvesicles ( mvs ) as a novel means of shedding cellular contents . we posit that during hiv-1 infection and immune activation , microvesicles may mediate glutaminase release , generating excessive and neurotoxic levels of glutamate .", "gen_abstract": "this study investigates the potential neurotoxic effects of microvesicles released by hiv-1-infected macrophages and immune-activated microglia that contain the enzyme glutaminase. glutaminase is known to play a role in the metabolism of glutamine and glutamate, neurotransmitters that are critical for proper brain function. the results suggest that these microvesicles can induce neurotoxicity, which could contribute to the development of neurological complications associated with hiv-1 infection. the findings highlight the need for further research to better understand the mechanisms underlying the neurotoxic effects of glutaminase-containing microvesicles and to develop strategies to mitigate their impact on brain function.", "pol_abstract": "in the pathogenesis of hiv-1-associated neurocognitive disorders (hand), hiv-1-infected and/or immune-activated microglia and macrophages play a crucial role. glutaminase, an enzyme that facilitates the generation of glutamate, is upregulated and potentially pathogenic in hand. previous research has shown that glutaminase is released to the extracellular fluid during hiv-1 infection and neuroinflammation. however, the specific molecular mechanisms that regulate glutaminase release are still unknown. recent advances in intercellular trafficking suggest that microvesicles (mvs) could serve as a new means of shedding cellular contents. it is hypothesized that microvesicles may mediate glutaminase release during hiv-1 infection and immune activation, leading to the production of excessive and neurotoxic levels of glutamate.", "mix_abstract": "background hiv-1-infected and/or immune-activated microglia and macrophages are pivotal in the pathogenesis of hiv-1-associated neurocognitive disorders ( hand )  glutaminase is a metabolic enzyme that facilitates the generation of glutamate and is upregulated, potentially playing a pathogenic role in hand. our previous studies have demonstrated that glutaminase is released into the extracellular fluid during both hiv-1 infection and neuroinflammation. however, the key molecular mechanisms that regulate glutaminase release remain unknown. recent advances in understanding intercellular trafficking have identified microvesicles (mvs) as a novel means of shedding cellular contents. we hypothesize that microvesicles may mediate glutaminase release during hiv-1 infection and immune activation, leading to the generation of excessive and neurotoxic levels of glutamate."}
{"title": "radiographic analysis of the restoration of hip_joint center following open reduction_and_internal_fixation_of_acetabular_fractures : a retrospective cohort study", "abstract": "background unfavorable reduction is considered one of the key factors leading to joint degeneration and compromised clinical outcome in acetabular_fracture patients . besides the columns , walls , and superior dome , the postoperative position of hip_joint center ( hjc ) , which is reported to affect hip biomechanics , should be considered during the assessment of quality of reduction . we aimed to evaluate the radiographic restoration of hjc in acetabular_fractures treated with open reduction and internal fixation . methods patients with a displaced acetabular_fracture that received open reduction and internal fixation in the authors \u2019 institution during the past five years were identified from the trauma database .", "gen_abstract": "this retrospective cohort study aimed to evaluate the restoration of hip joint center following open reduction and internal fixation of acetabular fractures using radiographic analysis. the study analyzed a cohort of patients who underwent the surgical procedure and assessed the postoperative radiographs to measure the anatomical landmarks of the hip joint. the results of the analysis were then compared to the preoperative radiographs to determine the level of restoration achieved. the findings of the study suggest that open reduction and internal fixation of acetabular fractures can effectively restore the hip joint center, as evidenced by the radiographic analysis. the study highlights the importance of postoperative radiographic analysis in evaluating the success of surgical interventions for acetabular fractures.", "pol_abstract": "the objective of this study was to assess the impact of hip joint center (hjc) position on hip biomechanics in patients with acetabular fractures treated with open reduction and internal fixation. in addition to evaluating the quality of reduction based on columns, walls, and superior dome, it is important to consider the postoperative position of hjc as a key factor in joint degeneration and clinical outcome. to achieve this, we identified patients with displaced acetabular fractures who underwent open reduction and internal fixation at our institution within the past five years using the trauma database and evaluated the radiographic restoration of hjc. the aim was to determine whether the postoperative position of hjc has an effect on hip biomechanics and the overall clinical outcome of these patients.", "mix_abstract": "background:\n\nunfavorable reduction is considered to be one of the key factors that can lead to joint degeneration and compromised clinical outcomes in patients with acetabular fractures. in addition to evaluating the columns, walls, and superior dome, it is important to consider the postoperative position of the hip joint center (hjc) in order to assess the quality of reduction, as it has been reported to impact hip biomechanics. the aim of this study is to evaluate the radiographic restoration of hjc in patients with acetabular fractures who have been treated with open reduction and internal fixation.\n\nrevised:\n\nacetabular fractures can lead to joint degeneration and compromised clinical outcomes, with unfavorable reduction being a key contributing factor. in addition to assessing the columns, walls, and superior dome, it is essential to consider the postoperative position of the hip joint center (hjc) to evaluate the quality of reduction, as it can impact hip biomechanics. the objective of this study is to evaluate the radiographic restoration of hjc in patients with acetabular fractures who underwent open reduction and internal fixation.  methods patients with a displaced acetabular_fracture that received open reduction and internal fixation in the authors \u2019 institution during the past five years were identified from the trauma database"}
{"title": "sunitinib malate synergistically potentiates anti-tumor effect of gemcitabine in human bladder_cancer cells", "abstract": "purpose sunitinib malate ( sutent ; pfizer , new york , ny , usa ) is a highly selective multi-targeted agent and has been reported to have potent anti-tumor effects against various tumors , including renal cell carcinoma and gastrointestinal stromal tumors . in this study , we explored in vitro the anti-tumor effect and related molecular mechanisms of sunitinib malate against human bladder_cancer cell lines . we also determined the synergistic anti-tumor effect between sunitinib and conventional cytotoxic drugs , cisplatin and gemcitabine , in bladder_cancer cells . materials and methods six human cancer cell lines ( htb5 , htb9 , t24 , umuc14 , sw1710 , and j82 ) were exposed to an escalating dose of sunitinib alone or in combination with cisplatin/gemcitabine , and the cytotoxic effect of the drugs was examined by cck-8", "gen_abstract": "the combination of multiple drugs is a common strategy in cancer therapy to increase treatment efficacy and minimize the development of drug resistance. in this study, we investigated the potential synergistic effect of combining sunitinib malate and gemcitabine in human bladder cancer cells. our results demonstrated that the combination of sunitinib malate and gemcitabine exerted a synergistic anti-tumor effect in human bladder cancer cells, with increased inhibition of cell proliferation and induction of apoptosis compared to treatment with either drug alone. our findings suggest that this combination may be a promising therapeutic option for the treatment of bladder cancer.", "pol_abstract": "the purpose of this study was to investigate the anti-tumor effects and related molecular mechanisms of sunitinib malate, a selective multi-targeted agent, on human bladder cancer cell lines. the study also aimed to determine the synergistic effect of sunitinib with conventional cytotoxic drugs, cisplatin and gemcitabine, in these cells. six human cancer cell lines were exposed to an increasing concentration of sunitinib alone or in combination with cisplatin/gemcitabine, and the cytotoxic effects of the drugs were evaluated using cck-8. previous reports have demonstrated the potent anti-tumor effects of sunitinib on various tumors, including renal cell carcinoma and gastrointestinal stromal tumors.", "mix_abstract": "purpose: the purpose of this study was to investigate the in vitro anti-tumor effect and related molecular mechanisms of sunitinib malate, a highly selective multi-targeted agent developed by pfizer, new york, ny, usa, against human bladder cancer cell lines. additionally, we aimed to determine the synergistic anti-tumor effect of sunitinib in combination with conventional cytotoxic drugs, cisplatin and gemcitabine, on bladder cancer cells. sunitinib malate has been reported to have potent anti-tumor effects against various tumors, including renal cell carcinoma and gastrointestinal stromal tumors.  materials and methods six human cancer cell lines ( htb5 , htb9 , t24 , umuc14 , sw1710 , and j82 ) were exposed to an escalating dose of sunitinib alone or in combination with cisplatin/gemcitabine , and the cytotoxic effect of the drugs was examined by cck-8"}
{"title": "prophylactic titanium_elastic_nailing ( ten ) following femoral lengthening ( lengthening then rodding ) with one or two nails reduces the risk for secondary interventions after regenerate fractures : a cohort study in monolateral vs. bilateral lengthening procedures", "abstract": "background femoral fracture rates of up to 30 % have been reported following lengthening procedures using fixators . \u201c lengthening then rodding \u201d uses one or two titanium elastic nails ( tens ) for prophylactic intramedullary nailing to reduce this complication . the aim of the study was to decide if usage of only one ten is safe or has it a higher risk of getting a fracture ? and we asked if there is a difference between patients with monolateral or bilateral lengthening procedures according to their fracture rate ? methods one or two tens were implanted in two groups of patients ( monolateral and bilateral ) after femoral lengthening procedures .", "gen_abstract": "this cohort study aimed to evaluate the effectiveness of prophylactic titanium-elastic nailing (ten) in reducing the risk of secondary interventions after regenerate fractures in patients who underwent femoral lengthening procedures. the study compared the outcomes of monolateral and bilateral lengthening procedures and assessed the use of one or two nails during ten. the results indicated that prophylactic ten with one or two nails was effective in reducing the risk of secondary interventions after regenerate fractures, regardless of the type of lengthening procedure. however, the use of two nails during ten was associated with better outcomes in terms of fracture healing and complication rates. these findings suggest that prophylactic ten with two nails may be the preferred treatment option for patients undergoing femoral lengthening procedures.", "pol_abstract": "the incidence of femoral fractures following lengthening procedures using fixators can be as high as 30%. to reduce this complication, \"lengthening then rodding\" technique utilizes one or two titanium elastic nails (tens) for prophylactic intramedullary nailing. the purpose of this study was to determine the safety of using only one ten and to investigate if there is a difference in fracture rates between patients who underwent monolateral or bilateral lengthening procedures. two groups of patients (monolateral and bilateral) who underwent femoral lengthening procedures were implanted with one or two tens.", "mix_abstract": "the incidence of femoral fractures following lengthening procedures using fixators has been reported to be as high as 30%. to mitigate this complication, the \"lengthening then rodding\" approach employs one or two titanium elastic nails (tens) for prophylactic intramedullary nailing. the purpose of this study was to determine whether the use of only one ten is safe or if it carries a higher risk of fracture. additionally, we investigated whether there is a difference in fracture rates between patients who undergo monolateral versus bilateral lengthening procedures. two groups of patients (monolateral and bilateral) who had undergone femoral lengthening procedures received one or two tens."}
{"title": "insulin-like_growth_factor_2_mrna_binding_protein_3 ( igf2bp3 ) overexpression in pancreatic_ductal_adenocarcinoma correlates with poor survival", "abstract": "background pancreatic_ductal_adenocarcinoma is a lethal disease with a 5-year survival rate of 4 % and typically presents in an advanced stage . in this setting , prognostic markers identifying the more agrressive tumors could aid in managment decisions . insulin-like_growth_factor_2_mrna_binding_protein_3 ( igf2bp3 , also known as imp3 or koc ) is an oncofetal rna-binding protein that regulates targets such as insulin-like growth factor-2 ( igf-2 ) and actb ( beta-actin ) . methods we evaluated the expression of igf2bp3 by immunohistochemistry using a tissue microarray of 127 pancreatic_ductal_adenocarcinomas with tumor grade 1 , 2 and 3 according to who criteria , and the prognostic value of igf2bp3 expression .", "gen_abstract": "pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (pdac) is a highly aggressive form of cancer with a poor prognosis, and there is a need for better biomarkers to predict patient outcomes. in this study, we investigated the expression of insulin-like growth factor 2 mrna binding protein 3 (igf2bp3) in pdac and its correlation with patient survival. we found that igf2bp3 was overexpressed in pdac and that high levels of igf2bp3 expression correlated with poor patient survival. these results suggest that igf2bp3 may serve as a useful prognostic biomarker for pdac, and targeting igf2bp3 may represent a promising therapeutic strategy for this deadly disease.", "pol_abstract": "the incidence of pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma is high and associated with poor prognosis, with most cases presenting in advanced stages and a low 5-year survival rate. the identification of prognostic markers capable of distinguishing aggressive tumors from less aggressive ones would be useful in clinical decision-making. insulin-like growth factor 2 mrna binding protein 3 (igf2bp3 or imp3/koc) is an oncofetal rna-binding protein that regulates the expression of genes such as insulin-like growth factor 2 (igf-2) and beta-actin (actb). in this study, we investigated the expression of igf2bp3 using immunohistochemistry in a tissue microarray of 127 pancreatic ductal adenocarcinomas with tumor grade 1, 2, and 3 according to who criteria, and examined its prognostic value.", "mix_abstract": "background pancreatic_ductal_adenocarcinoma is a lethal disease with a 5-year survival rate of 4 % and typically presents in an advanced stage  in this context, the identification of prognostic markers that can differentiate between aggressive and less aggressive tumors could be useful for making management decisions. insulin-like growth factor 2 mrna binding protein 3 (igf2bp3), also known as imp3 or koc, is an oncofetal rna-binding protein that regulates targets such as insulin-like growth factor 2 (igf-2) and beta-actin (actb). we assessed the expression of igf2bp3 through immunohistochemistry using a tissue microarray consisting of 127 pancreatic ductal adenocarcinomas with tumor grades 1, 2, and 3 according to who criteria, and evaluated the prognostic value of igf2bp3 expression."}
{"title": "metabolic effect of telmisartan and losartan in hypertensive patients with metabolic_syndrome", "abstract": "background metabolic_syndrome is a cluster of common cardiovascular risk factors that includes hypertension and insulin resistance . hypertension and diabetes mellitus are frequent comorbidities and , like metabolic_syndrome , increase the risk of cardiovascular events . telmisartan , an antihypertensive agent with evidence of partial peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor activity-gamma ( ppar\u03b3 ) activity , may improve insulin sensitivity and lipid profile in patients with metabolic_syndrome . methods in a double-blind , parallel-group , randomized study , patients with world health organization criteria for metabolic_syndrome received once-daily doses of telmisartan ( 80 mg , n = 20 ) or losartan ( 50 mg , n = 20 ) for 3 months .", "gen_abstract": "the metabolic syndrome is a constellation of interrelated risk factors, including hypertension, dyslipidemia, and insulin resistance, that increases the risk of developing cardiovascular disease and diabetes mellitus. telmisartan and losartan are commonly used medications for the treatment of hypertension, but their effects on metabolic parameters in hypertensive patients with metabolic syndrome are not well understood. this abstract summarizes the findings of a study that aimed to investigate the metabolic effects of telmisartan and losartan in hypertensive patients with metabolic syndrome. the study found that both medications effectively lowered blood pressure, but only telmisartan significantly improved insulin resistance and lipid profile in these patients. these findings suggest that telmisartan may be a more effective treatment option for hypertensive patients with metabolic syndrome who are at risk of developing cardiovascular disease and diabetes mellitus.", "pol_abstract": "context: the following abstract is discussing a study comparing the effectiveness of two medications, telmisartan and losartan, on patients with metabolic syndrome.\n\nrevised: metabolic syndrome is a collection of common cardiovascular risk factors, including hypertension and insulin resistance, which frequently coexist with hypertension and diabetes mellitus, thereby increasing the risk of cardiovascular events. telmisartan, an antihypertensive medication, has shown evidence of partial peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor activity-gamma (ppar\u03b3) activity, which may enhance insulin sensitivity and lipid profile in patients with metabolic syndrome. in this double-blind, randomized study, patients with metabolic syndrome according to the world health organization criteria were given either telmisartan (80mg, n=20) or losartan (50mg, n=20) once a day for 3 months in parallel groups.", "mix_abstract": "background metabolic_syndrome is a cluster of common cardiovascular risk factors that includes hypertension and insulin resistance  hypertension and diabetes mellitus frequently occur together and, along with metabolic syndrome, increase the risk of cardiovascular events. telmisartan, an antihypertensive drug with demonstrated partial activity on peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor gamma (ppar\u03b3), may enhance insulin sensitivity and improve lipid profiles in patients with metabolic syndrome. in this study, a double-blind, parallel-group, randomized approach was used to administer once-daily doses of telmisartan (80mg, n=20) or losartan (50mg, n=20) over a period of three months to patients meeting world health organization criteria for metabolic syndrome."}
{"title": "proton_beam_therapy for non-small cell lung_cancer : current clinical evidence and future directions", "abstract": "lung_cancer is the leading cancer cause of death in the united states . radiotherapy is an essential component of the definitive treatment of early-stage and locally-advanced lung_cancer , and the palliative treatment of metastatic lung_cancer . proton_beam_therapy ( pbt ) , through its characteristic bragg peak , has the potential to decrease the toxicity of radiotherapy , and , subsequently improve the therapeutic ratio . herein , we provide a primer on the physics of proton_beam_therapy for lung_cancer , present the existing data in early-stage and locally-advanced non-small cell lung_cancer ( nsclc ) , as well as in special situations such as re-irradiation and post-operative radiation therapy .", "gen_abstract": "this article reviews the current clinical evidence for proton beam therapy in the treatment of non-small cell lung cancer, focusing on its efficacy and safety compared to other treatment modalities. the potential advantages and limitations of proton beam therapy for lung cancer are also discussed, along with the future directions for research and development in this field. overall, the article aims to provide a comprehensive overview of the current state of proton beam therapy for non-small cell lung cancer and the potential implications for clinical practice.", "pol_abstract": "lung cancer remains the top cause of cancer-related deaths in the united states. radiotherapy is a crucial aspect of treating early-stage and locally-advanced lung cancer, as well as providing palliative care for metastatic lung cancer. proton beam therapy (pbt), with its unique bragg peak, has the potential to reduce radiotherapy toxicity and improve the therapeutic ratio. this article offers an introduction to the physics of pbt for lung cancer and reviews the available data for its application in early-stage and locally-advanced non-small cell lung cancer (nsclc), as well as in specific scenarios like re-irradiation and post-operative radiation therapy.", "mix_abstract": "in the united states, lung cancer is the top cause of cancer-related deaths.  radiotherapy is an essential component of the definitive treatment of early-stage and locally-advanced lung_cancer , and the palliative treatment of metastatic lung_cancer  in this text, we discuss the potential benefits of proton beam therapy (pbt) in reducing the toxicity associated with radiotherapy and improving the therapeutic ratio, owing to its unique bragg peak. our focus is on the physics of pbt for lung cancer, and we provide a comprehensive overview of the current data on its efficacy in early-stage and locally-advanced non-small cell lung cancer (nsclc), as well as in special situations like re-irradiation and post-operative radiation therapy."}
{"title": "overexpression of calcium-permeable glutamate receptors in glioblastoma derived brain tumor initiating cells", "abstract": "glioblastoma multiforme is the most malignant type of primary brain_tumor with a poor prognosis . these tumors consist of a heterogeneous population of malignant cells , including well-differentiated tumor cells and less differentiated cells with stem cell properties . these cancer stem cells , known as brain_tumor initiating cells , likely contribute to glioma recurrence , as they are highly invasive , mobile , resistant to radiation and chemotherapy , and have the capacity to self-renew . glioblastoma tumor cells release excitotoxic levels of glutamate , which may be a key process in the death of peritumoral neurons , formation of necrosis , local inflammation , and glioma-related seizures .", "gen_abstract": "\n\nglioblastoma is a highly aggressive form of brain cancer, and it is known to contain a small population of cancer stem cells, known as brain tumor-initiating cells (btics). recent studies suggest that btics may play a critical role in the initiation, progression, and recurrence of glioblastoma. in this study, we investigated the role of calcium-permeable glutamate receptors in btics. we found that the overexpression of these receptors in btics promotes cell proliferation and survival, as well as the activation of key signaling pathways associated with glioblastoma development. our results suggest that targeting these receptors could be a potential therapeutic strategy for the treatment of glioblastoma.", "pol_abstract": "glioblastoma multiforme, an aggressive primary brain tumor with a dismal prognosis, is composed of a diverse array of malignant cells, ranging from highly differentiated to stem cell-like tumor-initiating cells. these brain tumor-initiating cells, which exhibit enhanced mobility, invasiveness, and resistance to conventional treatments, are thought to be a major contributor to glioma recurrence due to their ability to self-renew. in addition, glioblastoma tumor cells are known to release high levels of the excitotoxin glutamate, which is believed to play a critical role in the destruction of neighboring neurons, the development of necrosis, the promotion of local inflammation, and the occurrence of glioma-related seizures.", "mix_abstract": "the prognosis for glioblastoma multiforme, which is the most aggressive type of primary brain tumor, is generally poor.  these tumors consist of a heterogeneous population of malignant cells , including well-differentiated tumor cells and less differentiated cells with stem cell properties  the brain tumor initiating cells, also referred to as cancer stem cells, are believed to play a significant role in glioma recurrence due to their ability to self-renew, resist radiation and chemotherapy, as well as their high invasiveness and mobility. additionally, glioblastoma tumor cells can produce excessive amounts of glutamate, which could lead to the death of peritumoral neurons, formation of necrosis, local inflammation, and seizures related to glioma."}
{"title": "protective effects of \u03b1-tocopherol , \u03b3-tocopherol and oleic_acid , three compounds of olive oils , and no effect of trolox , on 7-ketocholesterol-induced mitochondrial and peroxisomal dysfunction in microglial bv-2 cells", "abstract": "lipid peroxidation products , such as 7-ketocholesterol ( 7kc ) , may be increased in the body fluids and tissues of patients with neurodegenerative diseases and trigger microglial dysfunction involved in neurodegeneration . it is therefore important to identify synthetic and natural molecules able to impair the toxic effects of 7kc . we determined the impact of 7kc on murine microglial bv-2 cells , especially its ability to trigger mitochondrial_and_peroxisomal_dysfunction , and evaluated the protective effects of \u03b1- and \u03b3-tocopherol , trolox , and oleic_acid ( oa ) . multiple complementary chemical assays , flow cytometric and biochemical methods were used to evaluate the antioxidant and cytoprotective properties of these molecules .", "gen_abstract": "\n\nthis study investigated the protective effects of three compounds found in olive oil - \u03b1-tocopherol, \u03b3-tocopherol, and oleic acid - against 7-ketocholesterol-induced mitochondrial and peroxisomal dysfunction in microglial bv-2 cells. the results showed that \u03b1-tocopherol, \u03b3-tocopherol, and oleic acid had protective effects against the oxidative stress caused by 7-ketocholesterol, while trolox had no effect. these findings suggest that certain compounds found in olive oil may have potential therapeutic applications in preventing oxidative stress-induced cellular dysfunction.", "pol_abstract": "the presence of 7-ketocholesterol (7kc), a product of lipid peroxidation, may be elevated in the body fluids and tissues of patients with neurodegenerative diseases, and may contribute to microglial dysfunction that leads to neurodegeneration. identifying natural and synthetic compounds capable of mitigating the toxic effects of 7kc is crucial. in this study, we investigated the impact of 7kc on murine microglial bv-2 cells, particularly its ability to induce dysfunction in mitochondria and peroxisomes, and we assessed the protective effects of \u03b1- and \u03b3-tocopherol, trolox, and oleic acid (oa). we employed multiple chemical assays, flow cytometry, and biochemical methods to evaluate the cytoprotective and antioxidant properties of these compounds.", "mix_abstract": "the levels of 7-ketocholesterol (7kc), a type of lipid peroxidation product, could be elevated in the body fluids and tissues of individuals with neurodegenerative conditions, potentially contributing to microglial dysfunction and neurodegeneration. as a result, it's crucial to pinpoint synthetic and natural compounds that can hinder the harmful impacts of 7kc.  we determined the impact of 7kc on murine microglial bv-2 cells , especially its ability to trigger mitochondrial_and_peroxisomal_dysfunction , and evaluated the protective effects of \u03b1- and \u03b3-tocopherol , trolox , and oleic_acid ( oa )  a combination of biochemical methods, flow cytometric analysis, and multiple chemical assays were employed to assess the cytoprotective and antioxidant characteristics of these compounds."}
{"title": "differential responses of hepatic_endoplasmic_reticulum_stress and inflammation in diet-induced obese rats with high-fat diet rich in lard oil or soybean_oil", "abstract": "scopes to investigate the effects of high-fat diet enriched with lard oil or soybean_oil on liver endoplasmic reticulum ( er ) stress and inflammation markers in diet-induced obese ( dio ) rats and estimate the influence of following low-fat diet feeding . methods and results male sd rats were fed with standard low-fat diet ( lf , n = 10 ) and two isoenergentic high-fat diets enriched with lard ( hl , n = 45 ) or soybean_oil ( hs , n = 45 ) respectively for 10 weeks . then dio rats from hl and hs were fed either high-fat diet continuously ( hl/hl , hs/hs ) or switched to low-fat diet ( hl/lf , hs/lf ) for another 8", "gen_abstract": "this study examines the differential responses of hepatic endoplasmic reticulum (er) stress and inflammation in diet-induced obese rats fed a high-fat diet rich in lard oil or soybean oil. the researchers investigate how the type of oil used in the high-fat diet affects the development of obesity and related metabolic complications, such as insulin resistance, er stress, and inflammation in the liver. the results of the study reveal that the type of oil used in the high-fat diet has a significant impact on the development of hepatic er stress and inflammation in diet-induced obese rats, with lard oil resulting in more severe metabolic complications compared to soybean oil. these findings have important implications for the development of dietary interventions to prevent and treat obesity and related metabolic disorders.", "pol_abstract": "the aim of this study was to examine the impact of a high-fat diet enriched with either lard oil or soybean oil on liver endoplasmic reticulum (er) stress and inflammation markers in diet-induced obese (dio) rats, and to assess the influence of switching to a low-fat diet. the study was conducted on male sd rats who were fed a standard low-fat diet (lf, n=10) or two isoenergetic high-fat diets enriched with lard (hl, n=45) or soybean oil (hs, n=45) for a period of 10 weeks. subsequently, dio rats from the hl and hs groups were either continued on a high-fat diet (hl/hl, hs/hs) or switched to a low-fat diet (hl/lf, hs/lf) for another 8 weeks. results of the study are discussed in detail.", "mix_abstract": "the objective of this study was to examine the impact of a high-fat diet containing lard oil or soybean oil on the endoplasmic reticulum (er) stress and inflammation markers in rats that were induced to be obese by their diet. additionally, the study aimed to evaluate the effects of switching to a low-fat diet. the experiment involved male sd rats, where 10 rats were fed a standard low-fat diet (lf), and 45 rats were fed each of the two isoenergetic high-fat diets enriched with lard (hl) or soybean oil (hs) for a period of 10 weeks.  then dio rats from hl and hs were fed either high-fat diet continuously ( hl/hl , hs/hs ) or switched to low-fat diet ( hl/lf , hs/lf ) for another 8"}
{"title": "adipose tissue fibrosis in human cancer_cachexia : the role of tgf\u03b2 pathway", "abstract": "background cancer_cachexia is a multifactorial syndrome that dramatically decreases survival . loss of white adipose_tissue ( wat ) is one of the key characteristics of cachexia . wat wasting is paralleled by microarchitectural remodeling in cachectic cancer patients . fibrosis results from uncontrolled ecm synthesis , a process in which , transforming growth factor-beta ( tgf\u03b2 ) plays a pivotal role . so far , the mechanisms involved in adipose_tissue ( at ) re-arrangement , and the role of tgf\u03b2 in inducing at remodeling in weight-losing cancer patients are poorly understood . this study examined the modulation of ecm components mediated by tgf\u03b2 pathway in fibrotic at obtained from cachectic gastrointestinal cancer patients .", "gen_abstract": "cancer cachexia is a complex metabolic disorder characterized by progressive weight loss, muscle wasting, and adipose tissue dysfunction. adipose tissue fibrosis has emerged as a critical aspect of cachexia development, but the molecular mechanisms driving this pathological process remain poorly understood. in this context, the transforming growth factor-\u03b2 (tgf\u03b2) pathway has been implicated as a crucial regulator of fibrotic responses in various tissues, including adipose. this review aims to summarize the current evidence supporting the involvement of tgf\u03b2 signaling in the induction of adipose tissue fibrosis during cancer cachexia. we will discuss the preclinical and clinical studies investigating the effects of tgf\u03b2 inhibitors and downstream targets in the modulation of cachexia-associated adipose tissue fibrosis. additionally, we will highlight the challenges and future directions in the development of novel therapeutics targeting the tgf\u03b2 pathway to prevent or reverse adipose tissue fibrosis in cancer cachexia.", "pol_abstract": "cancer cachexia is a complex syndrome that significantly reduces survival, and the loss of white adipose tissue (wat) is a key characteristic of this condition. microarchitectural remodeling in cachectic cancer patients accompanies wat wasting, which is caused by uncontrolled extracellular matrix (ecm) synthesis, with the transforming growth factor-beta (tgf\u03b2) playing a central role. however, the mechanisms underlying adipose tissue rearrangement and the role of tgf\u03b2 in inducing adipose tissue remodeling in cancer patients with weight loss are not well understood. this study aimed to investigate how the tgf\u03b2 pathway modulates ecm components in fibrotic adipose tissue from gastrointestinal cancer patients with cachexia.", "mix_abstract": "cancer cachexia is a complex syndrome that significantly reduces survival. one of its primary features is the loss of white adipose tissue (wat), which is accompanied by structural changes in cachectic cancer patients. the wasting of wat is associated with the development of fibrosis, which is caused by unregulated synthesis of the extracellular matrix (ecm), in which the transforming growth factor-beta (tgf\u03b2) plays a crucial role.  so far , the mechanisms involved in adipose_tissue ( at ) re-arrangement , and the role of tgf\u03b2 in inducing at remodeling in weight-losing cancer patients are poorly understood  the focus of this investigation was to analyze the modulation of extracellular matrix (ecm) components that were mediated by the tgf\u03b2 pathway in fibrotic adipose tissue (at) samples taken from gastrointestinal cancer patients experiencing cachexia."}
{"title": "the transcription factor phr1 plays a key role in the regulation of sulfate shoot-to-root flux upon phosphate starvation in arabidopsis", "abstract": "background sulfate and phosphate are both vital macronutrients required for plant growth and development . despite evidence for interaction between sulfate and phosphate homeostasis , no transcriptional factor has yet been identified in higher plants that affects , at the gene expression and physiological levels , the response to both elements . this work was aimed at examining whether phr1 , a transcription factor previously shown to participate in the regulation of genes involved in phosphate homeostasis , also contributed to the regulation and activity of genes involved in sulfate inter-organ transport . results among the genes implicated in sulfate transport in arabidopsis thaliana , sultr1 ; 3 and sultr3 ; 4 showed up-regulation of transcripts in plants grown under phosphate-deficient", "gen_abstract": "this study investigates the role of the transcription factor phr1 in regulating sulfate shoot-to-root flux during phosphate starvation in arabidopsis. the authors demonstrate that phr1 plays a crucial role in controlling the expression of genes involved in sulfate transport and assimilation, which ultimately affects the sulfate allocation between shoots and roots. the results suggest that phr1 acts as a master regulator that coordinates the response of plants to the combined deficiency of phosphate and sulfate, highlighting the importance of cross-talk between nutrient signaling pathways in plants. overall, this study provides insights into the molecular mechanisms that underlie the regulation of nutrient homeostasis in plants, which may have important implications for crop improvement and sustainable agriculture.", "pol_abstract": "sulfate and phosphate are essential macronutrients for plant growth, and there is evidence suggesting an interaction between their homeostasis. however, no transcriptional factor has been identified in higher plants that affects the response to both elements at the gene expression and physiological levels. this study aimed to investigate whether phr1, a transcription factor known for regulating genes involved in phosphate homeostasis, also plays a role in regulating genes involved in sulfate inter-organ transport. the results of the study showed that among the genes implicated in sulfate transport in arabidopsis thaliana, sultr1;3 and sultr3;4 transcripts were up-regulated in plants grown under phosphate-deficient conditions.", "mix_abstract": "sulfate and phosphate are essential macronutrients necessary for the growth and development of plants. although there is evidence of a connection between sulfate and phosphate homeostasis, no transcriptional factor has been found in higher plants that can impact the response to both elements at the gene expression and physiological levels. the objective of this study was to investigate whether phr1, a transcription factor previously known to be involved in regulating genes related to phosphate homeostasis, also plays a role in the regulation and activity of genes involved in sulfate inter-organ transport.  results among the genes implicated in sulfate transport in arabidopsis thaliana , sultr1 ; 3 and sultr3 ; 4 showed up-regulation of transcripts in plants grown under phosphate-deficient"}
{"title": "dedifferentiated_liposarcoma with leukocytosis . a case report of g-csf-producing soft-tissue tumors , possible association with undifferentiated liposarcoma_lineage", "abstract": "background granulocyte-colony-stimulating factor ( g-csf ) functions as a hematopoietic growth factor and it is responsible for leukocytosis . g-csf-producing tumors associated with leukocytosis include various types of malignancies . case presentation we report the case of a 72-year-old man with dedifferentiated_liposarcoma characterized by dedifferentiated components of malignant fibrous histiocytoma ( mfh ) -like features in addition to well-differentiated lipoma-like liposarcoma , arising from his upper arm . preoperative laboratory data showed leukocytosis ( 103,700/\u03bcl ) . the serum level of g-csf was also elevated ( 620 pg/ml [ normal , < 8 pg/ml ] ) . nine days after the surgery , the leukocytosis was relieved ( wbc ; 6,920/\u03bcl ) and the elevated serum g-csf level was significantly decreased ( g-csf ; 12 pg/ml", "gen_abstract": "\n\nthis case report describes a patient diagnosed with dedifferentiated liposarcoma, a rare type of soft-tissue tumor, who also presented with leukocytosis, a condition marked by abnormally high white blood cell count. further investigation revealed that the tumor was producing granulocyte colony-stimulating factor (g-csf), a cytokine that stimulates the production of white blood cells. the report explores the possible association between g-csf-producing tumors and undifferentiated liposarcoma lineage, as well as the potential implications for diagnosis and treatment.", "pol_abstract": "background:\ngranulocyte-colony-stimulating factor (g-csf) is a hematopoietic growth factor responsible for leukocytosis, and it's associated with various types of malignancies.\n\ncase presentation:\nthis report describes a 72-year-old man with dedifferentiated liposarcoma in his upper arm, which had both dedifferentiated components of malignant fibrous histiocytoma (mfh)-like features and well-differentiated lipoma-like liposarcoma. the patient had preoperative leukocytosis (103,700/\u03bcl) and an elevated serum level of g-csf (620 pg/ml [normal, <8 pg/ml]). nine days after the surgery, the patient's leukocytosis was relieved (wbc; 6,920/\u03bcl), and the serum g-csf level significantly decreased (g-csf; 12 pg/ml [normal, <8 pg/ml]).", "mix_abstract": "background: granulocyte-colony-stimulating factor (g-csf) is a hematopoietic growth factor that is responsible for promoting the growth and development of white blood cells, known as leukocytes, in the body.  g-csf-producing tumors associated with leukocytosis include various types of malignancies  case presentation:\n\nwe present the case of a 72-year-old man who was diagnosed with dedifferentiated liposarcoma, featuring dedifferentiated components of malignant fibrous histiocytoma (mfh)-like features as well as well-differentiated lipoma-like liposarcoma. the tumor originated in his upper arm. \n\nprior to surgery, the patient's laboratory results showed leukocytosis with a count of 103,700/\u03bcl. additionally, the serum level of g-csf was elevated at 620 pg/ml (normal range: <8 pg/ml).  nine days after the surgery , the leukocytosis was relieved ( wbc ; 6,920/\u03bcl ) and the elevated serum g-csf level was significantly decreased ( g-csf ; 12 pg/ml"}
{"title": "the omega-3_fatty_acid , eicosapentaenoic_acid ( epa ) , prevents the damaging effects of tumour_necrosis_factor ( tnf_rfp_-alpha during murine skeletal muscle cell differentiation", "abstract": "background eicosapentaenoic_acid ( epa ) is a \u03ce-3 polyunsaturated fatty acid with anti-inflammatory and anti-cachetic properties that may have potential benefits with regards to skeletal muscle atrophy conditions where inflammation is present . it is also reported that pathologic levels of the pro-inflammatory cytokine tumour_necrosis_factor ( tnf ) -\u03b1 are associated with muscle wasting , exerted through inhibition of myogenic differentiation and enhanced apoptosis . these findings led us to hypothesize that epa may have a protective effect against skeletal muscle damage induced by the actions of tnf-\u03b1 . results the deleterious effects of tnf-\u03b1 on c2c12 myogenesis were completely inhibited by co-treatment with epa .", "gen_abstract": "\n\nthis study investigates the effects of eicosapentaenoic acid (epa), an omega-3 fatty acid, on the differentiation of murine skeletal muscle cells in the presence of tumor necrosis factor-alpha (tnf-\u03b1), a pro-inflammatory cytokine. the results suggest that epa supplementation prevented the harmful effects of tnf-\u03b1 during the differentiation of skeletal muscle cells, as evidenced by improved myotube formation and enhanced expression of myogenic markers. these findings suggest that epa has a protective role in the regulation of skeletal muscle differentiation, particularly in the presence of inflammatory stimuli, and may have implications for the prevention or treatment of muscle-related pathologies.", "pol_abstract": "the \u03ce-3 polyunsaturated fatty acid, eicosapentaenoic acid (epa), possesses anti-inflammatory and anti-cachetic properties that may benefit skeletal muscle atrophy conditions involving inflammation. muscle wasting is associated with pathologic levels of the pro-inflammatory cytokine, tumor necrosis factor (tnf)-\u03b1, which inhibits myogenic differentiation and increases apoptosis. based on these findings, it was hypothesized that epa may protect against skeletal muscle damage caused by tnf-\u03b1. results indicated that co-treatment with epa completely prevented the detrimental effects of tnf-\u03b1 on c2c12 myogenesis.", "mix_abstract": "background eicosapentaenoic_acid ( epa ) is a \u03ce-3 polyunsaturated fatty acid with anti-inflammatory and anti-cachetic properties that may have potential benefits with regards to skeletal muscle atrophy conditions where inflammation is present  according to reports, elevated levels of the pro-inflammatory cytokine tumor necrosis factor (tnf)-\u03b1 can lead to muscle wasting by inhibiting myogenic differentiation and increasing apoptosis. based on these findings, it was hypothesized that epa might offer protection against skeletal muscle damage caused by tnf-\u03b1. the results showed that co-treatment with epa completely prevented the harmful effects of tnf-\u03b1 on c2c12 myogenesis."}
{"title": "randomized sham controlled trial of cranial microcurrent stimulation for symptoms of depression , anxiety , pain , fatigue and sleep_disturbances in women receiving chemotherapy for early-stage breast_cancer", "abstract": "purpose women with breast_cancer may experience symptoms of depression , anxiety , pain , fatigue and sleep_disturbances during chemotherapy . however , there are few modalities that address multiple , commonly occurring symptoms that may occur in individuals receiving cancer treatment . cranial electrical stimulation ( ces ) is a treatment that is fda cleared for depression , anxiety and insomnia . ces is applied via electrodes placed on the ear that deliver pulsed , low amplitude electrical current to the head . methods this phase iii randomized , sham-controlled study aimed to examine the effects of cranial microcurrent stimulation on symptoms of depression , anxiety , pain , fatigue , and sleep_disturbances in women receiving chemotherapy for early-stage", "gen_abstract": "this randomized, sham-controlled trial aims to evaluate the effectiveness of cranial microcurrent stimulation in managing symptoms of depression, anxiety, pain, fatigue, and sleep disturbances in women receiving chemotherapy for early-stage breast cancer. the study will include a group of women who receive real cranial microcurrent stimulation and another group who receive sham stimulation, to allow for a comparison of the treatment's efficacy. the study's primary outcome will be the change in the severity of the symptoms over the treatment period, with secondary outcomes including changes in quality of life and adverse effects of the treatment. the findings of this study will provide valuable insight into the potential benefits of cranial microcurrent stimulation as an adjunctive treatment for managing symptoms of breast cancer treatment.", "pol_abstract": "breast cancer patients undergoing chemotherapy may suffer from depression, anxiety, pain, fatigue, and sleep disturbances. unfortunately, there are limited options available to manage these commonly occurring symptoms during cancer treatment. cranial electrical stimulation (ces) is a fda-cleared therapy that can address depression, anxiety, and insomnia. by applying low-amplitude electrical currents through electrodes placed on the ear, ces stimulates the head. in this phase iii study, we randomly assigned women receiving chemotherapy for early-stage breast cancer to either cranial microcurrent stimulation or a sham control group to investigate the effectiveness of ces on depression, anxiety, pain, fatigue, and sleep disturbances.", "mix_abstract": "breast cancer patients undergoing chemotherapy often encounter various symptoms, including depression, anxiety, pain, fatigue, and sleep disturbances. despite these commonly occurring symptoms, there are limited treatment options available that effectively address multiple symptoms simultaneously.  cranial electrical stimulation ( ces ) is a treatment that is fda cleared for depression , anxiety and insomnia  electrodes are positioned on the ear to administer ces, which utilizes a low amplitude electrical current in the form of pulses directed to the head.  methods this phase iii randomized , sham-controlled study aimed to examine the effects of cranial microcurrent stimulation on symptoms of depression , anxiety , pain , fatigue , and sleep_disturbances in women receiving chemotherapy for early-stage"}
{"title": "pain , psa flare , and bone scan response in a patient with metastatic castration-resistant prostate_cancer treated with radium-223 , a case report", "abstract": "background radium-223 has been shown to improve overall survival in men with metastatic castration-resistant prostate_cancer with symptomatic bone metastases . the bone scan response to radium-223 has only been described in one single center trial of 14 patients , none of whom achieved the outstanding bone scan response presented in the current case . case presentation in this case report , we describe a 75 year-old white man with extensively pre-treated metastatic castration-resistant prostate_cancer and symptomatic bone metastases who experienced a flare in pain and prostate-specific antigen , followed by dramatic clinical ( pain ) , biochemical ( prostate-specific antigen ) , and imaging ( bone scan ) response .", "gen_abstract": "this case report presents a patient with metastatic castration-resistant prostate cancer who was treated with radium-223. the report describes the patient's experience with pain, psa flare, and bone scan response following treatment with radium-223. the patient's medical history, treatment course, and outcomes are discussed, providing insight into the potential benefits and challenges of radium-223 therapy for patients with metastatic castration-resistant prostate cancer. the report highlights the importance of close monitoring and management of treatment-related side effects to ensure optimal patient outcomes. overall, this case report contributes to our understanding of the potential benefits and limitations of radium-223 therapy in the management of advanced prostate cancer.", "pol_abstract": "the use of radium-223 has been demonstrated to enhance the overall survival of male patients with metastatic castration-resistant prostate cancer and symptomatic bone metastases. although there has been only one trial conducted at a single center with 14 patients, which described the bone scan response to radium-223, none of them achieved the exceptional bone scan response presented in the current case. this case report illustrates a 75-year-old caucasian male with extensively pre-treated metastatic castration-resistant prostate cancer and symptomatic bone metastases. the patient experienced a surge in pain and prostate-specific antigen levels, followed by a remarkable clinical (pain), biochemical (prostate-specific antigen), and imaging (bone scan) response.", "mix_abstract": "background: radium-223 has been demonstrated to improve overall survival in men with metastatic castration-resistant prostate cancer with symptomatic bone metastases. however, the bone scan response to radium-223 has only been described in a single-center trial of 14 patients, none of whom achieved the outstanding bone scan response presented in the current case.\n\ncase presentation: in this report, we present the case of a 75-year-old caucasian man with extensively pre-treated metastatic castration-resistant prostate cancer and symptomatic bone metastases. he experienced a flare-up in pain and prostate-specific antigen levels, followed by a dramatic clinical (pain), biochemical (prostate-specific antigen), and imaging (bone scan) response."}
{"title": "electroacupuncture for thalidomide/bortezomib-induced peripheral_neuropathy in multiple_myeloma : a feasibility study", "abstract": "background this single-arm study evaluated feasibility , safety , and initial efficacy of electroacupuncture for thalidomide/bortezomib-induced peripheral_neuropathy ( pn ) in cancer patients with multiple_myeloma . methods patients with neuropathy \u2265 grade 2 received 20 acupuncture treatments over 9 weeks . results for the 19 evaluable patients , functional assessment of cancer therapy/gynecological oncology group-neurotoxicity ( fact/gog/ntx ) mean ( sd ) scores improved significantly between baseline and week 13 ( 20.8 [ 9.6 ] vs 13.2 [ 8.5 ] , p = 0.0002 ) . moderate effect size differences began on week 4 , with the largest effect size differences found at week 9 for fact/gog/ntx scores , worst pain in the last 24 hours , and pain severity ( cohen \u2019 s d = 1.43 , 1.19 , and 1.08 , respectively ) and continuing through week 13 ( cohen \u2019 s d = 0.86 , 0.88 , and 0.90 , respectively", "gen_abstract": "this feasibility study aims to evaluate the potential of electroacupuncture as a complementary therapy for thalidomide/bortezomib-induced peripheral neuropathy in patients with multiple myeloma. the study design involves recruiting participants who will receive electroacupuncture treatment alongside their standard care. the study will assess the feasibility of conducting a larger, more comprehensive trial by evaluating the acceptability, safety, and tolerability of electroacupuncture treatment, as well as its potential efficacy in reducing neuropathic symptoms. the results of this study may provide valuable insights into the potential of electroacupuncture as a safe and effective complementary therapy for peripheral neuropathy in multiple myeloma patients undergoing thalidomide/bortezomib treatment.", "pol_abstract": "this study aimed to assess the safety, feasibility, and initial effectiveness of electroacupuncture in managing thalidomide/bortezomib-induced peripheral neuropathy (pn) in patients with multiple myeloma. a total of 20 acupuncture treatments were administered over a period of 9 weeks to patients with neuropathy of grade 2 or higher. of the 19 patients evaluated, significant improvements were observed in the functional assessment of cancer therapy/gynecological oncology group-neurotoxicity (fact/gog/ntx) mean scores between baseline and week 13 (20.8 [9.6] vs 13.2 [8.5], p = 0.0002). notably, moderate effect size differences were observed from week 4, with the largest effect size differences found at week 9 for fact/gog/ntx scores, worst pain in the last 24 hours, and pain severity (cohen's d = 1.43, 1.19, and 1.08, respectively), which persisted through week 13 (cohen's d = 0.86, 0.88, and 0.90, respectively).", "mix_abstract": "this study, which involved a single-arm, aimed to assess the feasibility, safety, and preliminary effectiveness of electroacupuncture in the management of thalidomide/bortezomib-induced peripheral neuropathy (pn) in individuals with multiple myeloma. the approach involved administering 20 acupuncture treatments over a period of 9 weeks to patients who had neuropathy of grade 2 or higher.  results for the 19 evaluable patients , functional assessment of cancer therapy/gynecological oncology group-neurotoxicity ( fact/gog/ntx ) mean ( sd ) scores improved significantly between baseline and week 13 ( 20 i'm sorry, but \"8 [ 9\" doesn't make sense as it is. it is missing some context and it is not clear what is being referred to. can you please provide more information or clarify what you mean so i can assist you better? 6 ] vs 13  2 [ 8 the study showed a significant difference in outcomes between the treatment and control groups (p = 0.0002). the effect size differences were moderate, with the most substantial differences found at week 9 for fact/gog/ntx scores, worst pain in the last 24 hours, and pain severity (cohen's d = 1.43, 1.19, and 1.08, respectively), and these differences continued through week 13 (cohen's d = 0.86, 0.88, and 0.82, respectively). 90 , respectively"}
{"title": "parathyroid_hormone/parathyroid_hormone-related_peptide regulate osteosarcoma cell functions : focus on the extracellular matrix ( review )", "abstract": "osteosarcoma ( os ) is a primary bone tumor of mesenchymal origin mostly affecting children and adolescents . the os extracellular matrix ( ecm ) is extensively altered as compared to physiological bone tissue . indeed , the main characteristic of the most common osteoblastic subtype of os is non-mineralized osteoid production . parathyroid_hormone ( pth ) is a polypeptide hormone secreted by the chief cells of the parathyroid glands . the pth-related peptide ( pthrp ) may be comprised of 139 , 141 or 173 amino acids and exhibits considerate n-terminal amino acid sequence homology with pth . the function of pth/pthrp is executed through the activation of the pth receptor 1 ( pthr1 ) and respective downstream intracellular pathways which regulate skeletal development , bone turnover and mineral ion", "gen_abstract": "this review focuses on the role of parathyroid hormone (pth) and parathyroid hormone-related peptide (pthrp) in regulating osteosarcoma cell functions, with a particular emphasis on their effects on the extracellular matrix (ecm). osteosarcoma is a highly aggressive bone tumor that is associated with significant morbidity and mortality. pth and pthrp have been shown to play important roles in the pathogenesis of osteosarcoma by regulating the proliferation, differentiation, and migration of tumor cells, as well as their interactions with the ecm. this review provides an overview of the current knowledge on the molecular mechanisms underlying the effects of pth and pthrp on osteosarcoma cells, and their potential as therapeutic targets for the treatment of this devastating disease. in addition, the review discusses recent advances in our understanding of the role of the ecm in osteosarcoma pathogenesis, and the interplay between pth/pthrp signaling and the ecm in regulating tumor cell functions. overall, this review provides a comprehensive overview of the current state of knowledge on the role of pth and pthrp in osteosarcoma, with a particular emphasis on the ecm, and highlights potential avenues for future research and therapeutic development.", "pol_abstract": "osteosarcoma (os) is a bone tumor that originates from mesenchymal cells and is most commonly found in children and adolescents. the extracellular matrix (ecm) of os is significantly different from that of normal bone tissue, with non-mineralized osteoid production being a key feature of the predominant osteoblastic subtype. parathyroid hormone (pth), a polypeptide hormone produced by parathyroid gland chief cells, shares significant amino acid sequence homology with pth-related peptide (pthrp), which may consist of 139, 141, or 173 amino acids. pth/pthrp exerts its function by activating the pth receptor 1 (pthr1) and downstream intracellular pathways, which regulate skeletal development, bone turnover, and mineral ion levels.", "mix_abstract": "os, or osteosarcoma, is a type of bone tumor that primarily originates from mesenchymal cells and typically impacts children and teenagers the most.  the os extracellular matrix ( ecm ) is extensively altered as compared to physiological bone tissue  the most prevalent type of osteoblastic subtype of osteosarcoma is typically characterized by the production of non-mineralized osteoid. parathyroid hormone (pth) is a polypeptide hormone that is released by the chief cells of the parathyroid glands. pthrp, which can consist of 139, 141, or 173 amino acids, shares significant n-terminal amino acid sequence similarity with pth.  the function of pth/pthrp is executed through the activation of the pth receptor 1 ( pthr1 ) and respective downstream intracellular pathways which regulate skeletal development , bone turnover and mineral ion"}
{"title": "metabolic_syndrome and cardiovascular_disease following hematopoietic_cell_transplantation : screening and preventive practice recommendations from cibmtr and ebmt", "abstract": "metabolic_syndrome ( mets ) is a constellation of cardiovascular risk factors that increases the risk of cardiovascular_disease , diabetes mellitus , and all cause mortality . long-term survivors of hematopoietic_cell_transplantation ( hct ) have a substantial risk of developing mets and cardiovascular_disease , with the estimated prevalence of mets being 31\u201349 % amongst hct recipients . while mets has not yet been proven to impact cardiovascular risk after hct , an understanding of the incidence and risk factors for mets in hct recipients can provide the foundation to evaluate screening guidelines and develop interventions that may mitigate cardiovascular-related mortality . a working group was established through the center for international blood and marrow transplant research and the european group for blood and marrow transplantation with the goal to review literature and recommend practices appropriate to hct", "gen_abstract": "this article provides recommendations for the screening and prevention of metabolic syndrome and cardiovascular disease in patients who have undergone hematopoietic cell transplantation (hct). the recommendations are based on the collaborative efforts of the center for international blood and marrow transplant research (cibmtr) and the european society for blood and marrow transplantation (ebmt). the article outlines the various risk factors for metabolic syndrome and cardiovascular disease in hct patients and provides guidance on appropriate screening and preventive practices. the recommendations emphasize the importance of early detection and intervention in the management of these comorbidities, which can significantly impact the long-term health and quality of life of hct patients.", "pol_abstract": "metabolic syndrome (mets) is a group of cardiovascular risk factors that increases the chances of cardiovascular disease, diabetes mellitus, and mortality from all causes. survivors of hematopoietic cell transplantation (hct) face a significant risk of developing mets and cardiovascular disease, with mets prevalence estimated to be between 31-49% among hct recipients. although the impact of mets on cardiovascular risk after hct is not yet established, identifying the incidence and risk factors of mets in hct recipients can provide a basis for evaluating screening guidelines and developing interventions that may help reduce cardiovascular-related mortality. to achieve this goal, the center for international blood and marrow transplant research and the european group for blood and marrow transplantation established a working group to review the literature and recommend appropriate practices for hct.", "mix_abstract": "metabolic syndrome (mets) is a group of cardiovascular risk factors that increase the chances of developing cardiovascular disease, diabetes mellitus, and mortality from any cause. individuals who have undergone hematopoietic cell transplantation (hct) have a high risk of developing mets and cardiovascular disease. it is estimated that the prevalence of mets among hct recipients is between 31% to 49%. while the impact of mets on cardiovascular risk after hct has not been established, knowing the frequency and risk factors associated with mets among hct recipients can serve as a basis for assessing screening protocols and developing interventions that could potentially reduce mortality related to cardiovascular disease.  a working group was established through the center for international blood and marrow transplant research and the european group for blood and marrow transplantation with the goal to review literature and recommend practices appropriate to hct"}
{"title": "anti-n-methyl-d-aspartate receptor_encephalitis with serum anti-thyroid antibodies and igm antibodies against epstein-barr_virus viral capsid antigen : a case report and one year follow-up", "abstract": "background anti-n-methyl-d-aspartate receptor_encephalitis is an increasingly common autoimmune disorder mediated by antibodies to certain subunit of the n-methyl-d-aspartate receptor . recent literatures have described anti-thyroid and infectious serology in this encephalitis but without follow-up . case presentation a 17-year-old chinese female patient presented with psychiatric symptoms , memory deficits , behavioral problems and seizures . she then progressed through unresponsiveness , dyskinesias , autonomic instability and central hypoventilation during treatment . her conventional blood work on admission showed high titers of igg antibodies to thyroglobulin , thyroid peroxidase and igm antibodies to epstein-barr_virus viral capsid antigen . an immature ovarian teratoma was found and removal of the tumor resulted in a full recovery .", "gen_abstract": "this case report presents a rare case of anti-n-methyl-d-aspartate receptor encephalitis in a patient with concurrent serum anti-thyroid antibodies and igm antibodies against epstein-barr virus viral capsid antigen. the patient's clinical presentation, diagnostic evaluation, and one-year follow-up are described in detail. this report highlights the importance of considering co-existing autoimmune and viral factors in the diagnosis and management of anti-n-methyl-d-aspartate receptor encephalitis. the long-term follow-up provides valuable insight into the course of the disease and the effectiveness of treatment over time. overall, this case report contributes to the understanding of the complex and multifactorial nature of anti-n-methyl-d-aspartate receptor encephalitis.", "pol_abstract": "the autoimmune disorder anti-n-methyl-d-aspartate receptor encephalitis is increasingly prevalent and results from antibodies targeting specific n-methyl-d-aspartate receptor subunits. recent literature has reported anti-thyroid and infectious serology as potential factors in this disorder, but no follow-up has been provided. \n\nin this case presentation, a 17-year-old chinese female patient initially exhibited psychiatric symptoms, memory deficits, behavioral problems, and seizures, and eventually progressed to unresponsiveness, dyskinesias, autonomic instability, and central hypoventilation during treatment. upon admission, her conventional blood work revealed high levels of igg antibodies to thyroglobulin and thyroid peroxidase, as well as igm antibodies to epstein-barr virus viral capsid antigen. further investigation uncovered an immature ovarian teratoma, and removal of the tumor resulted in a complete recovery.", "mix_abstract": "anti-n-methyl-d-aspartate receptor encephalitis is an autoimmune disorder caused by antibodies to a specific subunit of the n-methyl-d-aspartate receptor, and its incidence is on the rise. recent literature has reported on the presence of anti-thyroid and infectious serology in patients with this condition, although there has been no follow-up. this case presentation features a 17-year-old female patient from china who initially experienced psychiatric symptoms, memory deficits, behavioral problems, and seizures, and subsequently developed unresponsiveness, dyskinesias, autonomic instability, and central hypoventilation during treatment. upon admission, the patient's conventional blood work revealed high levels of igg antibodies to thyroglobulin and thyroid peroxidase, as well as igm antibodies to epstein-barr virus viral capsid antigen.  an immature ovarian teratoma was found and removal of the tumor resulted in a full recovery"}
{"title": "isoforms of retinol_binding_protein_4 ( rbp4 ) are increased in chronic_diseases_of_the_kidney but not of the liver", "abstract": "background the levels of retinol-binding protein 4 ( rbp4 ) \u2013 the carrier protein for vitamin a in plasma \u2013 are tightly regulated under healthy circumstances . the kidney , the main site of rbp4 catabolism , contributes to an elevation of rbp4 levels during chronic kidney disease ( ckd ) whereas during chronic liver disease ( cld ) rbp4 levels decrease . little is known about rbp4 isoforms including apo-rbp4 , holo-rbp4 as well as rbp4 truncated at the c-terminus ( rbp4-l and rbp4-ll ) except that rbp4 isoforms have been reported to be increased in hemodialysis patients . since it is not known whether cld influence rbp4 isoforms , we investigated rbp4 levels , apo- and holo-rbp4 as well as rbp4-l and rbp4-ll in plasma of 36 patients suffering from ckd , in 55 cld patients and in 50 control", "gen_abstract": "\n\nretinol binding protein 4 (rbp4) is a multifunctional protein involved in the transport of vitamin a and also has insulin resistance-inducing properties. in this study, we investigated the expression of rbp4 isoforms in chronic kidney and liver diseases. using a combination of western blotting and elisa, we found that rbp4 isoforms were significantly increased in chronic kidney disease but not in chronic liver disease. this suggests that rbp4 may play a role in the development or progression of chronic kidney disease, potentially through its insulin resistance-inducing properties. these findings could have implications for the development of targeted therapies for chronic kidney disease.", "pol_abstract": "in this study, we examined the levels of retinol-binding protein 4 (rbp4) isoforms, including apo-rbp4, holo-rbp4, and truncated rbp4 (rbp4-l and rbp4-ll), in the plasma of 36 patients with chronic kidney disease (ckd), 55 patients with chronic liver disease (cld), and 50 control individuals. normally, rbp4 levels are tightly regulated in plasma, but in ckd, rbp4 levels increase due to the kidney's contribution to rbp4 catabolism. conversely, rbp4 levels decrease in cld. while rbp4 isoforms have been reported to be elevated in hemodialysis patients, little is known about how cld affects rbp4 isoforms. our study aimed to investigate this further.", "mix_abstract": "in normal conditions, the levels of retinol-binding protein 4 (rbp4), which is responsible for transporting vitamin a in the bloodstream, are strictly controlled. the kidneys are primarily responsible for breaking down rbp4, and its levels are elevated in chronic kidney disease (ckd). however, during chronic liver disease (cld), rbp4 levels decline. limited knowledge exists regarding rbp4 isoforms, such as apo-rbp4, holo-rbp4, and truncated rbp4 at the c-terminus (rbp4-l and rbp4-ll). the only information available is that rbp4 isoforms have been found to increase in hemodialysis patients.  since it is not known whether cld influence rbp4 isoforms , we investigated rbp4 levels , apo- and holo-rbp4 as well as rbp4-l and rbp4-ll in plasma of 36 patients suffering from ckd , in 55 cld patients and in 50 control"}
{"title": "regulation of the subcellular localization of tumor necrosis factor receptor\u2013associated factor ( traf_rfp_2 by traf1 reveals mechanisms of traf2 signaling", "abstract": "tumor necrosis factor receptor\u2013associated factor ( traf_rfp_2 is a critical adaptor molecule for tumor necrosis factor ( tnf ) receptors in inflammatory and immune signaling . upon receptor engagement , traf2 is recruited to cd40 and translocates to lipid rafts in a ring finger-dependent process , which enables the activation of downstream signaling cascades including c-jun nh 2 -terminal kinase ( jnk ) and nuclear factor ( nf ) -\u03bab . although traf1 can displace traf2 and cd40 from raft fractions , it promotes the ability of traf2 activate signaling over a sustained period of time . removal of the ring finger of traf2 prevents its translocation into detergent-insoluble complexes and renders it dominant negative for signaling .", "gen_abstract": "the tumor necrosis factor receptor-associated factor 2 (traf2) is a key signaling protein involved in various cellular processes, including immune response and cell survival. its subcellular localization is crucial for its proper function, and the regulation of this localization is not well understood. in this study, we investigate the role of the tumor necrosis factor receptor-associated factor 1 (traf1) in regulating the subcellular localization of traf2. we show that traf1 interacts with traf2 and promotes its localization to the cytoplasm, resulting in enhanced downstream signaling. furthermore, we identify a novel mechanism by which traf1 regulates the subcellular localization of traf2 by inhibiting the association of traf2 with its negative regulator, cellular inhibitor of apoptosis protein 1 (ciap1). our findings provide new insights into the mechanisms of traf2 signaling and have implications for the development of therapies targeting traf2 signaling in diseases such as cancer and inflammatory disorders.", "pol_abstract": "traf2 is a crucial adapter molecule for inflammatory and immune signaling in tumor necrosis factor (tnf) receptors. its recruitment to cd40 and translocation to lipid rafts through a ring finger-dependent process activates downstream signaling cascades like jnk and nf-\u03bab upon receptor engagement. while traf1 can displace traf2 and cd40 from raft fractions, it enhances traf2's ability to sustain signaling over time. the removal of traf2's ring finger hinders its translocation into detergent-insoluble complexes and makes it dominant negative for signaling.", "mix_abstract": "traf_rfp_2 plays a crucial role as an adapter molecule for tnf receptors in immune and inflammatory signaling. when the receptors are activated, traf2 is recruited to cd40 and moves to lipid rafts through a process that relies on ring finger. this translocation allows the downstream signaling cascades, such as jnk and nf-\u03bab, to be activated.  although traf1 can displace traf2 and cd40 from raft fractions , it promotes the ability of traf2 activate signaling over a sustained period of time  if the ring finger of traf2 is removed, it will not be able to relocate into detergent-insoluble complexes and will have a dominant negative effect on signaling."}
{"title": "place of death in patients with lung_cancer : a retrospective cohort study from 2004-2013", "abstract": "introduction many patients with cancer die in an acute hospital bed , which has been frequently identified as the least preferred location , with psychological and financial implications . this study looks at place and cause of death in patients with lung_cancer and identifies which factors are associated with dying in an acute hospital bed versus at home . methods and findings we used the national lung_cancer audit linked to hospital episode statistics and office for national statistics data to determine cause and place of death in those with lung_cancer ; both overall and by cancer network . we used multivariate logistic regression to compare features of those who died in an acute hospital versus those who died at", "gen_abstract": "this retrospective cohort study from 2004-2013 examines the place of death in patients with lung cancer. the study aims to provide insight into the distribution of place of death in this patient population and identify factors that may be associated with dying in a particular location. using a large dataset, the study evaluates the place of death for patients with lung cancer, comparing deaths that occurred in hospitals, hospices, and home settings. the results of this study may have important implications for healthcare providers, policymakers, and patients and their families, as they seek to improve end-of-life care for individuals with lung cancer.", "pol_abstract": "introduction:\nthe location of death for patients with cancer is important due to its psychological and financial implications. dying in an acute hospital bed has been identified as the least preferred location. this study examines the place and cause of death for lung cancer patients and identifies the factors associated with dying in an acute hospital bed versus at home.\n\nmethods and findings:\nto determine the cause and place of death in patients with lung cancer, we analyzed data from the national lung cancer audit, hospital episode statistics, and the office for national statistics. we used multivariate logistic regression to compare the characteristics of patients who died in an acute hospital versus those who died at home, both overall and by cancer network.", "mix_abstract": "in this study, we examine the factors that are linked to the location and cause of death in patients with lung cancer. it is common for many cancer patients to pass away in acute hospital beds, which is generally considered to be an undesirable outcome with potential psychological and financial consequences. our research uses data from the national lung cancer audit, hospital episode statistics, and the office for national statistics to determine the place and cause of death in lung cancer patients, both in general and within specific cancer networks.  we used multivariate logistic regression to compare features of those who died in an acute hospital versus those who died at"}
{"title": "arginine-vasopressin in catecholamine-refractory septic versus non-septic_shock in extremely_low_birth_weight infants with acute_renal_injury", "abstract": "introduction the aim of this study was to assess the efficacy of arginine-vasopressin ( avp ) as a rescue therapy in catecholamine-refractory septic and non-septic_shock in extremely_low_birth_weight ( elbw ) infants with acute_renal_injury . methods prospective assessment of avp therapy in three elbw infants with catecholamine-refractory septic_shock and acute_renal_injury ( mean birth weight 600 \u00b1 30 g ) and three elbw infants with non-septic_shock and acute_renal_injury ( mean birth weight 770 \u00b1 110 g ) at a university hospital . the main outcome measures were restoration of blood pressure with adequate organ perfusion and survival at discharge . results in all three elbw infants with catecholamine-resistant septic_shock , systemic arterial blood pressure increased substantively with restoration of urine output after avp administration ( dosage , 0.035 to 0.36 u/kg/h ; length , 70 \u00b1 21 hours", "gen_abstract": "this study investigates the potential role of arginine-vasopressin (avp) in the management of extremely low birth weight infants with acute renal injury who present with catecholamine-refractory septic and non-septic shock. the study aims to compare the efficacy of avp in improving hemodynamic stability and renal function in these two groups of infants. the study will use a retrospective chart review of infants admitted to the neonatal intensive care unit over a two-year period. the results of this study may provide valuable insights into the potential use of avp as an alternative therapy for catecholamine-refractory septic and non-septic shock in extremely low birth weight infants with acute renal injury.", "pol_abstract": "this study aimed to evaluate the effectiveness of arginine-vasopressin (avp) as a rescue therapy in extremely low birth weight (elbw) infants with acute renal injury suffering from catecholamine-refractory septic and non-septic shock. the study involved the prospective assessment of avp therapy in three elbw infants with catecholamine-refractory septic shock (mean birth weight 600 \u00b1 30 g) and three elbw infants with non-septic shock (mean birth weight 770 \u00b1 110 g) at a university hospital. the primary outcome measures were the restoration of blood pressure with adequate organ perfusion and survival at discharge. results showed that avp administration (dosage, 0.035 to 0.36 u/kg/h; duration, 70 \u00b1 21 hours) substantially increased systemic arterial blood pressure and restored urine output in all three elbw infants with catecholamine-resistant septic shock.", "mix_abstract": "the purpose of this study was to evaluate how effective arginine-vasopressin (avp) is as a rescue treatment for extremely low birth weight (elbw) infants with acute renal injury who are experiencing septic or non-septic shock and are unresponsive to catecholamine therapy. the study was conducted at a university hospital and involved a prospective assessment of avp therapy in six elbw infants, with three experiencing septic shock and three experiencing non-septic shock. these infants had a mean birth weight of 600 \u00b1 30 g and 770 \u00b1 110 g, respectively. the primary outcome measures included the restoration of blood pressure with adequate organ perfusion and survival at the time of discharge.  results in all three elbw infants with catecholamine-resistant septic_shock , systemic arterial blood pressure increased substantively with restoration of urine output after avp administration ( dosage , 0 \"035 to 0\" could be polished to \"from 035 to 0.\" 36 u/kg/h ; length , 70 \u00b1 21 hours"}
{"title": "prevalence of ketosis , ketonuria , and ketoacidosis during liberal glycemic control in critically_ill patients with diabetes : an observational study", "abstract": "background it is uncertain whether liberal glucose control in critically_ill diabetic patients leads to increased ketone production and ketoacidosis . therefore , we aimed to assess the prevalence of ketosis , ketonuria and ketoacidosis in critically_ill diabetic patients treated in accordance with a liberal glycemic control protocol . methods we performed a prospective observational cohort study of 60 critically_ill diabetic patients with blood and/or urine ketone bodies tested in icu . all patients were treated according to a liberal glucose protocol targeting a blood glucose level ( bgl ) between 10 and 14 mmol/l in a single tertiary intensive care unit in australia .", "gen_abstract": "this observational study aimed to investigate the prevalence of ketosis, ketonuria, and ketoacidosis in critically ill patients with diabetes under liberal glycemic control. the study analyzed data from a sample of patients and found that ketosis was present in a significant proportion of the patient population. additionally, the study identified an association between ketosis and higher blood glucose levels, longer hospital stays, and increased mortality rates. these findings suggest that the liberal glycemic control strategy may not be the optimal approach for managing critically ill patients with diabetes, and more targeted interventions may be necessary to prevent the development of ketosis and associated complications.", "pol_abstract": "the objective of this study was to determine the occurrence of ketosis, ketonuria, and ketoacidosis in critically-ill diabetic patients undergoing liberal glucose control. the study involved a prospective observational cohort of 60 patients who were tested for blood and/or urine ketone bodies in an australian tertiary intensive care unit. all patients received treatment following a liberal glucose protocol that aimed to maintain a blood glucose level between 10 and 14 mmol/l. the study aimed to clarify whether liberal glucose control in critically-ill diabetic patients led to an increase in ketone production and ketoacidosis.", "mix_abstract": "background:\nit is uncertain whether liberal glucose control in critically ill diabetic patients leads to increased ketone production and ketoacidosis. therefore, we aimed to assess the prevalence of ketosis, ketonuria, and ketoacidosis in critically ill diabetic patients treated according to a liberal glycemic control protocol.\n\nnote: i made minor changes to the capitalization, added hyphens in \"critically_ill\" to make it \"critically ill,\" and removed the extra space before the period at the end of the sentence.  methods we performed a prospective observational cohort study of 60 critically_ill diabetic patients with blood and/or urine ketone bodies tested in icu  in a tertiary intensive care unit located in australia, a liberal glucose protocol was employed to treat all patients with the goal of maintaining their blood glucose level (bgl) between 10 and 14 mmol/l."}
{"title": "scavenging reactive oxygen species using tempol in the acute phase of renal_ischemia/reperfusion and its effects on kidney oxygenation and nitric_oxide levels", "abstract": "background renal_ischemia/reperfusion ( i/r ) injury is commonly seen in kidney transplantation and affects the allograft survival rates . we aimed to test our hypothesis that scavenging reactive oxygen species ( ros ) with tempol would protect renal oxygenation and nitric_oxide ( no ) levels in the acute phase of renal i/r . methods rats were randomly divided : ( 1 ) no i/r , no tempol ; ( 2 ) no i/r , but with tempol ; ( 3 ) i/r without tempol ; and ( 4 ) i/r with tempol . i/r was induced by 30-min clamping of the renal artery .", "gen_abstract": "this study aimed to investigate the potential benefits of using tempol, a potent scavenger of reactive oxygen species, in the acute phase of renal ischemia/reperfusion injury. the study examined the effects of tempol on kidney oxygenation and nitric oxide levels, two critical factors that are known to be affected during renal ischemia/reperfusion injury. results from the study suggest that tempol administration during the acute phase of renal ischemia/reperfusion injury can effectively scavenge reactive oxygen species and improve kidney oxygenation and nitric oxide levels, thus reducing the severity of the injury. these findings provide valuable insights into potential therapeutic interventions for renal ischemia/reperfusion injury and may have implications for the treatment of other oxidative stress-related diseases.", "pol_abstract": "the incidence of renal ischemia/reperfusion (i/r) injury is high in kidney transplantation, and it negatively impacts the survival rates of the allograft. our objective was to investigate whether scavenging reactive oxygen species (ros) using tempol could safeguard renal oxygenation and nitric oxide (no) levels in the initial stage of renal i/r. rats were assigned randomly into four groups: (1) no i/r and no tempol, (2) no i/r but with tempol, (3) i/r without tempol, and (4) i/r with tempol. i/r was caused by clamping the renal artery for 30 minutes. the study sought to evaluate the hypothesis.", "mix_abstract": "the incidence of renal ischemia/reperfusion (i/r) injury is high in kidney transplantation and can negatively impact the survival rates of the transplanted kidney. our objective was to investigate whether the use of tempol to scavenge reactive oxygen species (ros) would safeguard renal oxygenation and nitric oxide (no) levels during the acute phase of renal i/r. to achieve this goal, rats were randomly assigned to one of four groups: (1) no i/r and no tempol; (2) no i/r but with tempol; (3) i/r without tempol; and (4) i/r with tempol.  i/r was induced by 30-min clamping of the renal artery"}
{"title": "a role for fibroblast_growth_factor 19 and bile_acids in diabetes_remission after roux-en-y gastric bypass", "abstract": "objective roux-en-y_gastric_bypass ( rygb ) in humans can remit type 2 diabetes , but the operative mechanism is not completely understood . in mice , fibroblast_growth_factor ( fgf ) 15 ( fgf19 in humans ) regulates hepatic bile_acid ( ba ) production and can also resolve diabetes . in this study , we tested the hypothesis that the fgf19\u2013ba pathway plays a role in the remission of human diabetes after rygb surgery . research design and methods cohorts of diabetic and nondiabetic individuals of various body weights were used . in addition , rygb patients without diabetes ( no-diabetes ) , rygb patients with diabetes who experienced remission for at least 12 months after surgery ( diabetes-r ) , and rygb patients with diabetes who did not go into remission after surgery ( diabetes-nor ) were", "gen_abstract": "this study examines the potential role of fibroblast growth factor 19 (fgf19) and bile acids in diabetes remission after roux-en-y gastric bypass (rygb) surgery. the authors investigate the mechanisms through which rygb induces diabetes remission and how fgf19 and bile acids may contribute to this process. the study finds that rygb leads to an increase in fgf19 and bile acid levels, which in turn may improve glucose metabolism and insulin sensitivity, ultimately resulting in diabetes remission. these findings shed light on the underlying mechanisms of diabetes remission after rygb and suggest potential therapeutic targets for the treatment of diabetes.", "pol_abstract": "the aim of this study was to investigate the potential role of the fgf19\u2013ba pathway in the remission of type 2 diabetes after roux-en-y gastric bypass (rygb) surgery in humans, as the underlying mechanism of rygb-induced diabetes remission is not fully understood. the study utilized cohorts of individuals with varying body weights, including diabetic and non-diabetic individuals. three groups of rygb patients were also included: those without diabetes (no-diabetes), those with diabetes who achieved remission for at least 12 months after surgery (diabetes-r), and those with diabetes who did not experience remission after surgery (diabetes-nor). in mice, fgf15 (fgf19 in humans) has been shown to regulate hepatic bile acid production and resolve diabetes, and the study aimed to test if this pathway also plays a role in the remission of diabetes after rygb in humans.", "mix_abstract": "the aim of this study is to explore the potential involvement of the fgf19\u2013ba pathway in the remission of type 2 diabetes in humans following roux-en-y gastric bypass (rygb) surgery. while the mechanism behind the remission of diabetes after rygb is not entirely clear, previous research in mice has suggested that fibroblast growth factor (fgf) 15 (or fgf19 in humans) may regulate hepatic bile acid (ba) production and contribute to the resolution of diabetes. by testing the hypothesis that the fgf19\u2013ba pathway plays a role in the remission of diabetes after rygb surgery, this study seeks to shed further light on this complex and important issue.  research design and methods cohorts of diabetic and nondiabetic individuals of various body weights were used    in addition , rygb patients without diabetes ( no-diabetes ) , rygb patients with diabetes who experienced remission for at least 12 months after surgery ( diabetes-r ) , and rygb patients with diabetes who did not go into remission after surgery ( diabetes-nor ) were"}
{"title": "heterogeneous detection of circulating_tumor_cells in patients with colorectal_cancer by immunomagnetic enrichment using different epcam-specific antibodies", "abstract": "background circulating_tumor_cells ( ctc ) and disseminated tumor cells ( dtc ) are thought to be responsible for metastasis , so the detection of ctc may serve as individual prognostic factor in patients suffering from colorectal_cancer . therefore , a series of immunomagnetic enrichment methods for ctc have been developed using a variety of monoclonal antibodies against the epithelial cell adhesion molecule ( epcam ) . however , it remains unclear whether all commercially available epcam antibodies show the same sensitivity and specificity . furthermore , it remains unclear which method of sample preparation and cell extraction is most suitable for immunomagnetic enrichment and detection of ctc .", "gen_abstract": "this study aimed to evaluate the effectiveness of using different epcam-specific antibodies for immunomagnetic enrichment in the detection of circulating tumor cells (ctcs) in patients with colorectal cancer. blood samples from patients with colorectal cancer were processed using four different epcam-specific antibodies, and the captured cells were analyzed for their heterogeneity and expression of ctc markers. the results showed that each antibody captured a different population of ctcs, and the combination of antibodies improved the sensitivity and specificity of ctc detection. this study highlights the importance of using multiple epcam-specific antibodies for ctc detection, which could improve the accuracy of diagnosis and prognosis of colorectal cancer.", "pol_abstract": "the presence of circulating tumor cells (ctc) and disseminated tumor cells (dtc) is believed to play a significant role in the development of metastasis in patients with colorectal cancer, thus detecting ctc could potentially serve as an individual prognostic factor. to enrich ctc using immunomagnetic techniques, various monoclonal antibodies targeting the epithelial cell adhesion molecule (epcam) have been developed. however, it is still uncertain whether all commercially available epcam antibodies exhibit equivalent sensitivity and specificity. additionally, the optimal approach for sample preparation and cell extraction in immunomagnetic enrichment and detection of ctc remains unclear.", "mix_abstract": "background: \n\ncirculating tumor cells (ctc) and disseminated tumor cells (dtc) are believed to be responsible for metastasis, making the detection of ctc a potential prognostic factor for individual patients with colorectal cancer. in order to enrich ctc, a series of immunomagnetic methods have been developed using monoclonal antibodies against the epithelial cell adhesion molecule (epcam). however, it is still unclear whether all commercially available epcam antibodies exhibit the same sensitivity and specificity.  furthermore , it remains unclear which method of sample preparation and cell extraction is most suitable for immunomagnetic enrichment and detection of ctc"}
{"title": "combined therapy of diabetic_peripheral_neuropathy with breviscapine and mecobalamin : a systematic review and a meta-analysis of chinese studies", "abstract": "objective . a meta-analysis on combined therapy of diabetic_peripheral_neuropathy ( dpn ) with breviscapine and mecobalamin was performed to evaluate the efficacy of this therapy . methods . six english databases ( medline , cochrane library , pubmed , embase , web of science , and cinahl ) and four chinese databases ( china national knowledge infrastructure , vip journals database , cbm , and wanfang database ) were searched for studies on the clinical trials in which dpn was treated with breviscapine and mecobalamin , and revman 5.1 package was employed for analyzing pooled trials and publication bias . results .", "gen_abstract": "this systematic review and meta-analysis focuses on the combined therapy of diabetic peripheral neuropathy using breviscapine and mecobalamin in chinese studies. diabetic peripheral neuropathy is a common complication of diabetes, and breviscapine and mecobalamin have been identified as potential treatment options. the systematic review includes an assessment of the quality of the studies, as well as a quantitative analysis of the results using meta-analysis techniques. the findings suggest that the combined therapy of breviscapine and mecobalamin is effective in reducing symptoms of diabetic peripheral neuropathy, including pain and numbness. the study highlights the potential benefits of combining these two treatments and provides valuable insights for the management of diabetic peripheral neuropathy.", "pol_abstract": "the aim of this study was to conduct a meta-analysis of the combined therapy of breviscapine and mecobalamin for the treatment of diabetic peripheral neuropathy (dpn) and determine its effectiveness. to achieve this, a comprehensive search for clinical trial studies on dpn treatment with breviscapine and mecobalamin was carried out on six english databases (medline, cochrane library, pubmed, embase, web of science, and cinahl) and four chinese databases (china national knowledge infrastructure, vip journals database, cbm, and wanfang database). the revman 5.1 package was used to analyze the pooled trials and publication bias. the results of the study are presented in this paper.", "mix_abstract": "the aim of this study was to assess the effectiveness of a combined therapy of breviscapine and mecobalamin for treating diabetic peripheral neuropathy (dpn), through the use of a meta-analysis. to achieve this, clinical trials that investigated the use of this therapy on dpn were identified through a search of six english databases (medline, cochrane library, pubmed, embase, web of science, and cinahl) and four chinese databases (china national knowledge infrastructure, vip journals database, cbm, and wanfang database). the pooled trials were analyzed using revman 5.1 package and assessed for publication bias.  results"}
{"title": "large gastrointestinal_stromal_tumor and advanced adenocarcinoma in the rectum coexistent with an incidental prostate_carcinoma : a case report", "abstract": "introduction gastrointestinal stromal tumors ( gists ) are the leading mesenchymal neoplasia in the gastrointestinal tract , but gist arising from the rectum is rare . when a secondary neoplasia coexists in the vicinity of a rectal gist , more aggressive treatment strategies may be needed to cure the diseases . presentation of case we herein describe a 76-year-old man with a large gastrointestinal_stromal_tumor along with an advanced adenocarcinoma in the rectum that coexisted with prostate_carcinoma . preoperative examination revealed an advanced adenocarcinoma of the upper rectum and a large pelvic mass suggestive of a gist or a neuroendocrine tumor arising from the anterior wall of the lower rectum .", "gen_abstract": "this case report describes the coexistence of a large gastrointestinal stromal tumor and advanced adenocarcinoma in the rectum with an incidental prostate carcinoma in a male patient. the report provides details of the clinical presentation, diagnosis, and treatment of the patient, highlighting the challenges and complexities associated with managing multiple primary malignancies in a single patient. the findings underscore the importance of a multidisciplinary approach to the management of patients with complex cancer cases.", "pol_abstract": "gastrointestinal stromal tumors (gists) are the primary mesenchymal neoplasms found in the gastrointestinal tract, but occurrence of gist in the rectum is uncommon. in cases where a secondary neoplasm is present near a rectal gist, more aggressive treatment may be necessary to treat the illnesses. here, we present the case of a 76-year-old man who had a large gist and an advanced adenocarcinoma in the rectum, along with prostate carcinoma. before surgery, a thorough examination revealed an advanced adenocarcinoma located in the upper rectum, as well as a sizeable pelvic mass indicating a possible gist or a neuroendocrine tumor developing from the anterior wall of the lower rectum.", "mix_abstract": "introduction: gastrointestinal stromal tumors (gists) are the most common mesenchymal neoplasms found in the gastrointestinal tract. however, gists that arise from the rectum are rare. when a secondary neoplasm is present in close proximity to a rectal gist, more aggressive treatment strategies may be required to effectively treat the diseases.\n\npresentation of case: in this report, we describe the case of a 76-year-old man who presented with a large gist in the gastrointestinal tract, in addition to an advanced adenocarcinoma in the rectum. the rectal adenocarcinoma coexisted with prostate carcinoma.  preoperative examination revealed an advanced adenocarcinoma of the upper rectum and a large pelvic mass suggestive of a gist or a neuroendocrine tumor arising from the anterior wall of the lower rectum"}
{"title": "prediction of hepatitis_c virus interferon/ribavirin therapy outcome based on viral nucleotide attributes using machine learning algorithms", "abstract": "background hepatitis_c virus ( hcv ) causes chronic hepatitis_c in 2-3 % of world population and remains one of the health threatening human viruses , worldwide . in the absence of an effective vaccine , therapeutic approach is the only option to combat hepatitis_c . interferon-alpha ( ifn-alpha ) and ribavirin ( rbv ) combination alone or in combination with recently introduced new direct-acting antivirals ( daa ) is used to treat patients infected with hcv . the present study utilized feature selection methods ( gini index , chi squared and machine learning algorithms ) and other bioinformatics tools to identify genetic determinants of therapy outcome within the entire hcv nucleotide sequence .", "gen_abstract": "this study aims to investigate the predictive power of machine learning algorithms in determining the outcome of interferon/ribavirin therapy for hepatitis c virus. the study utilizes viral nucleotide attributes as features in the model, and evaluates the performance of different machine learning algorithms in predicting the therapy outcome. the results suggest that machine learning algorithms can effectively predict the outcome of interferon/ribavirin therapy based on viral nucleotide attributes, and may provide a valuable tool for personalized treatment strategies for patients with hepatitis c virus.", "pol_abstract": "the hepatitis c virus (hcv) is a widespread and dangerous human virus, causing chronic hepatitis c in 2-3% of the world's population. since there is no effective vaccine, therapeutic approaches are the only means of combating the disease. treatment for hcv involves using interferon-alpha (ifn-alpha) and ribavirin (rbv) in combination, with the addition of newer direct-acting antivirals (daa) as an option. this study employed bioinformatics tools, feature selection methods (gini index, chi squared, and machine learning algorithms) to identify the genetic determinants of treatment outcomes in the entire hcv nucleotide sequence.", "mix_abstract": "background: hepatitis c virus (hcv) is responsible for causing chronic hepatitis c in 2-3% of the world's population and remains one of the most threatening human viruses worldwide. in the absence of an effective vaccine, the therapeutic approach is the only option available to combat hepatitis c.  interferon-alpha ( ifn-alpha ) and ribavirin ( rbv ) combination alone or in combination with recently introduced new direct-acting antivirals ( daa ) is used to treat patients infected with hcv  \n\nthe current investigation employed various bioinformatics tools, including gini index, chi squared, and machine learning algorithms, to pinpoint genetic factors associated with treatment response in the complete hcv nucleotide sequence."}
{"title": "rate of deep-vein_thrombosis and pulmonary_embolism during the care continuum in patients with acute_ischemic_stroke in the united states", "abstract": "background deep-vein_thrombosis ( dvt ) and pulmonary_embolism ( pe ) are frequent and life-threatening complications of ischemic_stroke . we evaluated rates of symptomatic dvt/pe , and of in-hospital and post-discharge thromboprophylaxis in patients with acute_ischemic_stroke ( ais ) . methods in a retrospective us database analysis , data were extracted from the premier perspective\u2122-i3 pharma informatics linked database for patients aged \u226518 years who were hospitalized for ischemic_stroke from january 2005 to november 2007 , and who had \u22656 months \u2019 continuous plan enrollment prior to index hospitalization . patients discharged to an acute-care facility or with atrial fibrillation were excluded .", "gen_abstract": "this study aims to investigate the rate of deep-vein thrombosis (dvt) and pulmonary embolism (pe) during the care continuum in patients with acute ischemic stroke in the united states. using a retrospective analysis of a large database, the study examines the incidence of dvt and pe at different stages of stroke care, including admission, hospitalization, and post-discharge. the study also explores the risk factors associated with dvt and pe in these patients. the findings of this study will provide valuable insights into the prevalence and management of dvt and pe in patients with acute ischemic stroke, which may inform the development of effective prevention and treatment strategies.", "pol_abstract": "the prevalence of deep-vein thrombosis (dvt) and pulmonary embolism (pe) is high in patients with ischemic stroke, and these complications can be life-threatening. to assess the incidence of symptomatic dvt/pe and the use of thromboprophylaxis during and after hospitalization, we conducted a retrospective analysis of data from the premier perspective\u2122-i3 pharma informatics linked database. we identified patients who were at least 18 years old, hospitalized for acute ischemic stroke (ais) between january 2005 and november 2007, and had continuous plan enrollment for at least 6 months prior to their hospitalization. patients who were discharged to an acute-care facility or had atrial fibrillation were excluded from the analysis.", "mix_abstract": "in this study, we assessed the occurrence of symptomatic deep-vein thrombosis (dvt) and pulmonary embolism (pe) as well as the utilization of thromboprophylaxis both during hospitalization and after discharge in patients with acute ischemic stroke (ais). dvt and pe are common and serious complications that can arise from ais.  methods in a retrospective us database analysis , data were extracted from the premier perspective\u2122-i3 pharma informatics linked database for patients aged \u226518 years who were hospitalized for ischemic_stroke from january 2005 to november 2007 , and who had \u22656 months \u2019 continuous plan enrollment prior to index hospitalization  exclusions were made for patients who were discharged to an acute-care facility or had atrial fibrillation."}
{"title": "the outcome and predictive factors of sunitinib therapy in advanced gastrointestinal_stromal_tumors ( gist ) after imatinib failure - one institution study", "abstract": "background gastrointestinal_stromal_tumors ( gist ) mutational status is recognized factor related to the results of tyrosine kinase inhibitors therapy such as imatinib ( im ) or sunitinib ( su ) . arterial hypertension ( ah ) is common adverse event related to su , reported as predictive factor in renal cell carcinoma . the aim of the study was to analyze the outcomes and factors predicting results of su therapy in inoperable/metastatic cd117 ( + ) gist patients after im failure . methods we identified 137 consecutive patients with advanced inoperable/metastatic gist treated in one center with su ( 2 nd line treatment ) .", "gen_abstract": "this study aims to evaluate the outcomes and predictive factors of sunitinib therapy in patients with advanced gastrointestinal stromal tumors (gist) who have experienced imatinib failure. the study is conducted at a single institution and includes a retrospective analysis of patients who received sunitinib therapy for their advanced gist. the primary outcome measures include progression-free survival, overall survival, and response rate to sunitinib therapy. various potential predictive factors, such as patient age, sex, and tumor characteristics, will also be analyzed to identify those that are associated with a better response to sunitinib therapy. the results of this study will contribute to a better understanding of the effectiveness of sunitinib therapy and identify factors that can help predict treatment outcomes in patients with advanced gist after imatinib failure.", "pol_abstract": "the mutational status of gastrointestinal stromal tumors (gist), specifically cd117 positivity, is a known factor that affects the efficacy of tyrosine kinase inhibitors such as imatinib (im) and sunitinib (su). su treatment is frequently associated with arterial hypertension (ah), which has been reported as a predictive factor in renal cell carcinoma. this study aimed to evaluate the outcomes of su therapy in patients with inoperable/metastatic cd117 (+) gist who had failed im treatment, and to identify factors that predict treatment response. we examined 137 consecutive patients who received su as a second-line treatment for advanced inoperable/metastatic gist at a single center.", "mix_abstract": "the mutational status of gastrointestinal stromal tumors (gist), specifically their cd117+ status, is a known factor that affects the effectiveness of tyrosine kinase inhibitor treatments such as imatinib (im) and sunitinib (su). however, su treatment is commonly associated with arterial hypertension (ah), which has also been identified as a predictive factor in the treatment of renal cell carcinoma. this study aims to examine the outcomes of su therapy and identify factors that predict its effectiveness in patients with inoperable or metastatic cd117+ gist who have failed im treatment.  methods we identified 137 consecutive patients with advanced inoperable/metastatic gist treated in one center with su ( 2 nd line treatment )"}
{"title": "neuroprotective_effects of bilobalide on cerebral_ischemia and reperfusion_injury are associated with inhibition of pro-inflammatory mediator production and down-regulation of jnk1/2 and p38 mapk activation", "abstract": "background mitogen-activated protein kinase ( mapk ) signaling pathways are implicated in inflammatory and apoptotic processes of cerebral_ischemia and reperfusion ( i/r ) injury . hence , mapk pathways represent a promising therapeutic target . exploring the full potential of inhibitors of mapk pathways is a useful therapeutic strategy for ischemic stroke . bilobalide , a predominant sesquiterpene trilactone constituent of ginkgo biloba leaves , has been shown to exert powerful neuroprotective properties , which are closely related to both anti-inflammatory and anti-apoptotic pathways . we investigated the neuroprotective roles of bilobalide in the models of middle cerebral artery occlusion and reperfusion ( mcao/r ) and oxygen-glucose deprivation and reoxygenation ( ogd/r ) of cerebral i/r injury .", "gen_abstract": "this study investigates the potential neuroprotective effects of bilobalide on cerebral ischemia and reperfusion injury, with a focus on the underlying mechanisms involved. results suggest that bilobalide may be effective in protecting the brain from injury through its ability to inhibit the production of pro-inflammatory mediators and down-regulate the activation of jnk1/2 and p38 mapk signaling pathways. these findings may have implications for the development of new therapeutic strategies for the treatment of cerebral ischemia and reperfusion injury.", "pol_abstract": "the signaling pathways of mitogen-activated protein kinase (mapk) are known to be involved in the inflammatory and apoptotic processes associated with cerebral ischemia and reperfusion (i/r) injury, making them a promising target for therapeutic intervention in ischemic stroke. bilobalide, a major constituent of ginkgo biloba leaves, has demonstrated potent neuroprotective effects by modulating both anti-inflammatory and anti-apoptotic pathways. in this study, we evaluated the neuroprotective effects of bilobalide in models of cerebral i/r injury, including middle cerebral artery occlusion and reperfusion (mcao/r) and oxygen-glucose deprivation and reoxygenation (ogd/r).", "mix_abstract": "the involvement of mitogen-activated protein kinase (mapk) signaling pathways in the inflammatory and apoptotic processes of cerebral ischemia and reperfusion (i/r) injury suggests that targeting these pathways could be a valuable therapeutic approach. therefore, mapk pathways hold potential as a promising therapeutic target for the treatment of i/r injury.  exploring the full potential of inhibitors of mapk pathways is a useful therapeutic strategy for ischemic stroke  our study aimed to explore the neuroprotective effects of bilobalide, a primary sesquiterpene trilactone found in ginkgo biloba leaves, in the contexts of middle cerebral artery occlusion and reperfusion (mcao/r) as well as oxygen-glucose deprivation and reoxygenation (ogd/r) in cerebral i/r injury. our findings demonstrated that bilobalide exerts potent neuroprotective effects, which are closely associated with anti-inflammatory and anti-apoptotic pathways."}
{"title": "vitamin_d receptor chip-seq in primary cd4+ cells : relationship to serum 25-hydroxyvitamin_d levels and autoimmune_disease", "abstract": "background vitamin_d insufficiency has been implicated in autoimmunity . chip-seq experiments using immune cell lines have shown that vitamin_d receptor ( vdr ) binding sites are enriched near regions of the genome associated with autoimmune_diseases . we aimed to investigate vdr binding in primary cd4+ cells from healthy volunteers . methods we extracted cd4+ cells from nine healthy volunteers . each sample underwent vdr chip-seq . our results were analyzed in relation to published chip-seq and rna-seq data in the genomic hyperbrowser . we used memechip for de novo motif discovery . 25-hydroxyvitamin_d levels were measured using liquid chromatography\u2013tandem mass spectrometry and samples were divided into vitamin_d sufficient ( 25 ( oh ) d \u226575 nmol/l ) and insufficient/deficient ( 25 ( oh ) d < 75 nmol/l )", "gen_abstract": "this study investigated the relationship between vitamin d receptor (vdr) binding sites in primary cd4+ cells, serum 25-hydroxyvitamin d (25(oh)d) levels, and autoimmune disease. chromatin immunoprecipitation sequencing (chip-seq) was used to map vdr binding sites in cd4+ cells from healthy controls and patients with autoimmune disease. the results showed that vdr binding was enriched near genes involved in immune function, and that vdr binding sites in cd4+ cells were associated with serum 25(oh)d levels. additionally, the study found that vdr binding was altered in cd4+ cells from patients with autoimmune disease compared to healthy controls. these findings suggest a potential role for vdr and vitamin d in modulating immune function and the development of autoimmune disease.", "pol_abstract": "the inadequate levels of vitamin_d have been linked to autoimmune diseases, and chip-seq experiments using immune cell lines have revealed a high concentration of vitamin_d receptor (vdr) binding sites in regions of the genome associated with these diseases. this study aimed to investigate vdr binding in primary cd4+ cells from healthy volunteers. we collected cd4+ cells from nine healthy volunteers and subjected them to vdr chip-seq. the results were compared with published chip-seq and rna-seq data in the genomic hyperbrowser. we utilized memechip for discovering de novo motifs. liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry was used to measure 25-hydroxyvitamin_d levels, and the samples were divided into vitamin_d sufficient (25(oh)d \u2265 75 nmol/l) and insufficient/deficient (25(oh)d < 75 nmol/l) groups for analysis.", "mix_abstract": "the insufficient presence of vitamin d in the background has been suggested to play a role in the development of autoimmune conditions. studies using immune cell lines and chip-seq experiments have indicated that the vitamin d receptor (vdr) tends to bind to sites located in the vicinity of the genomic regions that are linked to autoimmune diseases. the objective of our research was to examine the binding of vdr in primary cd4+ cells obtained from healthy individuals.  methods we extracted cd4+ cells from nine healthy volunteers  vdr chip-seq was performed on every sample. the findings were evaluated with reference to published chip-seq and rna-seq data in the genomic hyperbrowser. de novo motif discovery was conducted using memechip.  25-hydroxyvitamin_d levels were measured using liquid chromatography\u2013tandem mass spectrometry and samples were divided into vitamin_d sufficient ( 25 ( oh ) d \u226575 nmol/l ) and insufficient/deficient ( 25 ( oh ) d < 75 nmol/l )"}
{"title": "evaluation of diabetic foot ulcer_healing with hyperspectral imaging of oxyhemoglobin and deoxyhemoglobin", "abstract": "objective foot ulceration remains a major health problem for diabetic patients and has a major impact on the cost of diabetes treatment . we tested a hyperspectral imaging technology that quantifies cutaneous tissue hemoglobin oxygenation and generated anatomically relevant tissue oxygenation maps to assess the healing potential of diabetic foot_ulcers ( dfus ) . research design and methods a prospective single-arm blinded study was completed in which 66 patients with type 1 and type 2 diabetes were enrolled and followed over a 24-week period . clinical , medical , and diabetes histories were collected . transcutaneous oxygen tension was measured at the ankles .", "gen_abstract": "this study aimed to evaluate the use of hyperspectral imaging of oxyhemoglobin and deoxyhemoglobin in assessing the healing of diabetic foot ulcers. the study included a sample of diabetic patients with foot ulcers who underwent hyperspectral imaging to measure the levels of oxyhemoglobin and deoxyhemoglobin in the ulcerated tissue. the results were compared to traditional measures of ulcer healing, including wound size reduction and clinical assessment. the findings of this study suggest that hyperspectral imaging may provide a more accurate and objective measure of diabetic foot ulcer healing, compared to traditional methods. this has potential implications for the management and treatment of diabetic foot ulcers, which are a common and serious complication of diabetes.", "pol_abstract": "the aim of this study was to evaluate the effectiveness of hyperspectral imaging technology in assessing the healing potential of diabetic foot ulcers (dfus), which is a significant health concern and adds to the overall cost of diabetes treatment. a total of 66 patients with type 1 and type 2 diabetes were enrolled in a prospective single-arm blinded study and followed for 24 weeks. anatomically relevant tissue oxygenation maps were generated using the imaging technology to quantify cutaneous tissue hemoglobin oxygenation. in addition to this, clinical, medical, and diabetes histories were also collected, and transcutaneous oxygen tension was measured at the ankles.", "mix_abstract": "objective foot ulceration remains a major health problem for diabetic patients and has a major impact on the cost of diabetes treatment  in our study, we utilized hyperspectral imaging technology to measure the oxygenation of cutaneous tissue and produce anatomically relevant maps to evaluate the potential for healing in individuals with diabetic foot ulcers (dfus). to conduct this research, we enrolled 66 patients with type 1 and type 2 diabetes in a prospective single-arm blinded study and tracked their progress over a 24-week period. we gathered clinical, medical, and diabetes histories from each participant and also measured their transcutaneous oxygen tension at the ankles."}
{"title": "nbi\u201098854 , a selective monoamine transport inhibitor for the treatment of tardive_dyskinesia : a randomized , double\u2010blind , placebo\u2010controlled study", "abstract": "abstract background tardive_dyskinesia is a persistent movement disorder induced by chronic neuroleptic exposure . nbi\u201098854 is a novel , highly selective , vesicular monoamine transporter 2 inhibitor . we present results of a randomized , 6\u2010week , double\u2010blind , placebo\u2010controlled , dose\u2010titration study evaluating the safety , tolerability , and efficacy of nbi\u201098854 for the treatment of tardive_dyskinesia . methods male and female adult subjects with moderate or severe tardive_dyskinesia were included . nbi\u201098854 or placebo was given once per day starting at 25 mg and then escalated by 25 mg to a maximum of 75 mg based on dyskinesia and tolerability assessment .", "gen_abstract": "this study aimed to investigate the efficacy and safety of nbi-98854, a selective monoamine transport inhibitor, in the treatment of tardive dyskinesia. a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial was conducted in which patients with tardive dyskinesia were given either nbi-98854 or a placebo. the study found that nbi-98854 was effective in reducing tardive dyskinesia symptoms compared to the placebo, and was well-tolerated by the patients. these results suggest that nbi-98854 could be a promising treatment option for tardive dyskinesia.", "pol_abstract": "the objective of this study was to evaluate the safety, tolerability, and effectiveness of nbi-98854, a highly selective vesicular monoamine transporter 2 inhibitor, in treating tardive dyskinesia, a persistent movement disorder caused by prolonged exposure to neuroleptics. the study was a double-blind, randomized, placebo-controlled, and dose-titration trial conducted over a six-week period. both male and female adult subjects with moderate or severe tardive dyskinesia were included, and they were given either nbi-98854 or a placebo once daily. the treatment started at 25 mg and was increased by 25 mg to a maximum of 75 mg based on the assessment of dyskinesia and tolerability.", "mix_abstract": "abstract background tardive_dyskinesia is a persistent movement disorder induced by chronic neuroleptic exposure  the medication nbi-98854 is a new type of inhibitor that is highly selective towards the vesicular monoamine transporter 2. in this study, we report on the findings of a 6-week randomized trial, where the safety, tolerability, and effectiveness of nbi-98854 were evaluated for treating tardive dyskinesia. both male and female adult subjects with moderate or severe tardive dyskinesia were included and given either nbi-98854 or a placebo. the medication was administered once daily, starting at 25 mg, and was then increased by 25 mg up to a maximum dose of 75 mg, based on assessments of dyskinesia and tolerability. the study was double-blind, meaning neither the participants nor the researchers knew who received the medication and who received the placebo."}
{"title": "body mass index , gender , and ethnic variations alter the clinical implications of the epworth sleepiness scale in patients with suspected_obstructive_sleep_apnea", "abstract": "introduction : the epworth sleepiness scale ( ess ) is often used in the evaluation of obstructive_sleep_apnea ( osa ) , though questions remain about the influence gender , ethnicity , and body morphometry have in the responses to this questionnaire . the aim of this study was to examine differences in ess scores between various demographic groups of patients referred for polysomnography , and the relationship of these score to sleep-disordered breathing methods : nineteen hundred consecutive patients referred for polysomnographic diagnosis of osa completed questionnaires , including demographic data and ess . osa was determined based on a respiratory disturbance index ( rdi ) \u226515 by polysomnography .", "gen_abstract": "this study aimed to investigate how body mass index (bmi), gender, and ethnicity influence the clinical implications of the epworth sleepiness scale (ess) in patients with suspected obstructive sleep apnea (osa). the ess is a commonly used tool to assess daytime sleepiness in osa patients, but its diagnostic accuracy may vary based on patient demographics. data from a large sample of patients with suspected osa were analyzed, and the results showed that bmi, gender, and ethnicity had significant effects on the ess scores and their relationship with osa severity. the findings suggest that clinicians should consider these patient factors when interpreting ess scores and making diagnostic and treatment decisions for patients with suspected osa.", "pol_abstract": "the purpose of this study was to investigate the impact of gender, ethnicity, and body morphology on responses to the epworth sleepiness scale (ess), a tool commonly used to assess obstructive sleep apnea (osa). the study also aimed to explore the correlation between ess scores and sleep-disordered breathing in various demographic groups of patients referred for polysomnography. to achieve this, 1900 consecutive patients were surveyed using questionnaires that included demographic data and ess, with osa diagnosed based on a respiratory disturbance index (rdi) of 15 or greater using polysomnography.", "mix_abstract": "the epworth sleepiness scale (ess) is commonly used to evaluate obstructive sleep apnea (osa), but there are concerns about how gender, ethnicity, and body morphology affect responses to the questionnaire. this study aimed to compare ess scores among different demographic groups of patients referred for polysomnography, and to explore the relationship between these scores and sleep-disordered breathing. the study involved 1,900 consecutive patients referred for polysomnographic diagnosis of osa, who completed questionnaires providing demographic data and ess scores. osa was determined by a respiratory disturbance index (rdi) \u226515 as measured by polysomnography."}
{"title": "nurse-led , telephone-based , secondary preventive follow-up after stroke or transient_ischemic_attack improves blood pressure and ldl_cholesterol : results from the first 12 months of the randomized , controlled nailed stroke risk factor trial", "abstract": "background enhanced secondary preventive follow-up after stroke or transient_ischemic_attack ( tia ) is necessary for improved adherence to recommendations regarding blood pressure ( bp ) and low-density lipoprotein cholesterol ( ldl-c ) levels . we investigated whether nurse-led , telephone-based follow-up was more efficient than usual care at improving bp and ldl-c levels at 12 months after hospital discharge . methods we randomized 537 patients to either nurse-led , telephone-based follow-up ( intervention ) or usual care ( control ) . bp and ldl-c measurements were performed at 1 month ( baseline ) and 12 months post-discharge . intervention group patients who did not meet target values at baseline received additional follow-up , including titration of medication and lifestyle counselling , to reach treatment goals ( bp < 140/90 mmhg , ldl-c < 2.5 mmol/l", "gen_abstract": "the nailed stroke risk factor trial is a randomized, controlled study that examines the effectiveness of nurse-led, telephone-based, secondary preventive follow-up in improving blood pressure and ldl cholesterol levels in patients who have had a stroke or transient ischemic attack (tia). this abstract summarizes the results from the first 12 months of the trial, which show that the intervention significantly improves blood pressure and ldl cholesterol levels in the intervention group compared to the control group. these findings suggest that nurse-led, telephone-based follow-up could be a useful tool for improving secondary prevention of stroke and tia in the population.", "pol_abstract": "in order to improve adherence to recommendations concerning blood pressure (bp) and low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (ldl-c) levels, enhanced secondary preventive follow-up after stroke or transient ischemic attack (tia) is essential. the objective of this study was to determine whether nurse-led, telephone-based follow-up was more effective than usual care in improving bp and ldl-c levels at 12 months following hospital discharge. we conducted a randomized trial involving 537 patients, with the intervention group receiving nurse-led, telephone-based follow-up, while the control group received usual care. bp and ldl-c measurements were taken at baseline (1 month) and 12 months post-discharge. the intervention group patients who did not achieve target values at baseline received additional follow-up, including titration of medication and lifestyle counseling, to achieve treatment goals of bp < 140/90 mmhg and ldl-c < 2.5 mmol/l.", "mix_abstract": "the significance of implementing an improved secondary preventive follow-up after stroke or transient_ischemic_attack ( tia ) lies in enhancing adherence to recommendations concerning blood pressure ( bp ) and low-density lipoprotein cholesterol ( ldl-c ) levels.  we investigated whether nurse-led , telephone-based follow-up was more efficient than usual care at improving bp and ldl-c levels at 12 months after hospital discharge  methods: we randomized 537 patients into two groups: nurse-led telephone-based follow-up (intervention) and usual care (control). blood pressure (bp) and low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (ldl-c) measurements were taken at baseline (1 month after discharge) and at 12 months post-discharge. intervention group patients who did not meet target values at baseline received additional follow-up, including medication titration and lifestyle counseling, to help achieve treatment goals (bp < 140/90 mmhg, ldl-c < 2). 5 mmol/l"}
{"title": "catechin prevents the calcium_oxalate_monohydrate induced renal calcium crystallization in nrk-52e cells and the ethylene_glycol induced renal_stone formation in rat", "abstract": "background reactive oxygen species play important roles in renal calcium crystallization . in this study , we examined the effects of catechin , which have been shown to have antioxidant properties on the renal calcium crystallization . methods in the vitro experiment , the changes of the mitochondrial membrane potential , expression of superoxide dismutase ( sod ) , 4-hydroxynonenal ( 4-hne ) , cytochrome c , and cleaved caspase 3 were measured to show the effects of catechin treatment on the nrk-52e cells induced by calcium_oxalate_monohydrate ( com ) . in the vivo study , sprague\u2013dawley rats were administered 1 % ethylene_glycol ( eg ) to generate a rat kidney stone model and then treated with catechin ( 2.5 and 10 mg/kg/day ) for 14", "gen_abstract": "the objective of this study was to investigate the potential protective effect of catechin on calcium oxalate monohydrate (com)-induced renal calcium crystallization in nrk-52e cells and ethylene glycol (eg)-induced renal stone formation in rats. results showed that catechin treatment significantly decreased the formation of calcium crystals in nrk-52e cells treated with com and reduced the number and size of renal stones in rats induced with eg. the protective effect of catechin is likely due to its ability to inhibit the formation of calcium oxalate crystals and reduce oxidative stress in the kidney. these findings suggest that catechin may be a potential therapeutic agent for the prevention and treatment of calcium oxalate stone formation.", "pol_abstract": "background: renal calcium crystallization is influenced by reactive oxygen species. this study investigates the impact of catechin, known for its antioxidant properties, on renal calcium crystallization.\n\nmethods: in vitro experiments measured changes in mitochondrial membrane potential, superoxide dismutase (sod) expression, 4-hydroxynonenal (4-hne), cytochrome c, and cleaved caspase 3 to demonstrate the effects of catechin treatment on nrk-52e cells induced by calcium oxalate monohydrate (com). in vivo, sprague-dawley rats were administered 1% ethylene glycol (eg) to create a rat kidney stone model and then given catechin at doses of 2.5 and 10 mg/kg/day for 14 days.\n\nnote: no changes in the meaning of the text were made.", "mix_abstract": "background: reactive oxygen species play important roles in renal calcium crystallization. in this study, we investigated the effects of catechin, which has been shown to have antioxidant properties, on renal calcium crystallization.\n\nmethods: in vitro experiments were conducted to measure the changes in mitochondrial membrane potential, expression of superoxide dismutase (sod), 4-hydroxynonenal (4-hne), cytochrome c, and cleaved caspase 3 in nrk-52e cells induced by calcium oxalate monohydrate (com) to demonstrate the effects of catechin treatment.\n\noverall, the revised text includes minor changes such as capitalization, punctuation, and the use of proper scientific terminology.  in the vivo study , sprague\u2013dawley rats were administered 1 % ethylene_glycol ( eg ) to generate a rat kidney stone model and then treated with catechin ( 2  5 and 10 mg/kg/day ) for 14"}
{"title": "mortality , recurrence , and dependency rates are higher after acute ischemic_stroke in elderly patients with diabetes compared to younger patients", "abstract": "stroke has a greater effect on the elderly than on younger patients . however , the long-term outcomes associated with stroke among elderly patients with diabetes are unknown . we aimed to assess the differences in long-term outcomes between young and elderly stroke patients with diabetes . a total of 3,615 acute ischemic_stroke patients with diabetes were recruited for this study between 2006 and 2014 . outcomes at 12 and 36 months after stroke ( including mortality , recurrence , and dependency ) were compared between younger ( age < 75 years ) and elderly ( age \u226575 years ) patients .", "gen_abstract": "the abstract presents a comparative study of mortality, recurrence, and dependency rates following acute ischemic stroke in elderly patients with diabetes versus younger patients. the study analyzed data from a sample of stroke patients with diabetes, categorizing them into elderly and younger age groups. the results showed that elderly patients with diabetes had higher mortality rates, recurrence rates, and dependency rates after acute ischemic stroke compared to younger patients. these findings highlight the importance of timely diagnosis and appropriate management of stroke in elderly patients with diabetes, to improve their outcomes and reduce the burden of disability and mortality associated with stroke.", "pol_abstract": "although stroke affects patients of all ages, its impact is greater on elderly patients than on younger ones. the long-term consequences of stroke among elderly patients with diabetes, however, remain unclear. therefore, our study aimed to investigate the disparities in long-term outcomes between young and elderly stroke patients with diabetes. we recruited a total of 3,615 patients with acute ischemic stroke and diabetes between 2006 and 2014. we compared outcomes such as mortality, recurrence, and dependency at 12 and 36 months after stroke between patients younger than 75 years of age and those aged 75 years and older.", "mix_abstract": "the impact of a stroke is more significant on elderly individuals compared to younger patients.  however , the long-term outcomes associated with stroke among elderly patients with diabetes are unknown  our aim was to evaluate the disparities in long-term outcomes among stroke patients with diabetes who are either young or elderly. this study recruited a total of 3,615 acute ischemic stroke patients with diabetes between 2006 and 2014. the outcomes at 12 and 36 months post-stroke, which included mortality, recurrence, and dependency, were compared between two age groups: younger (age < 75 years) and elderly (age \u2265 75 years) patients."}
{"title": "effect of selective serotonin_reuptake_inhibitors and immunomodulator on cytokines levels : an alternative therapy for patients with major_depressive_disorder", "abstract": "major_depressive_disorder ( mdd ) is a psychiatric illness that presents as a deficit of serotonergic neurotransmission in the central nervous system . mdd patients also experience alterations in cortisol and cytokines levels . treatment with selective serotonin_reuptake_inhibitors ( ssris ) is the first-line antidepressant regimen for mdd . the aim of this study was to determine the effect of a combination of ssris and an immunomodulator\u2014human dialyzable leukocyte extract ( hdle ) \u2014on cortisol and cytokines levels . patients received ssris or ssris plus hdle . the proinflammatory cytokines il-1 \u03b2 , il-2 , and ifn- \u03b3 ; anti-inflammatory cytokines il-13 and il-10 ; and 24-h urine cortisol were measured at weeks ( w ) 0 , 5 , 20 , 36 , and 52 of", "gen_abstract": "major depressive disorder (mdd) is a prevalent mental health condition that affects millions of people worldwide. selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (ssris) are commonly prescribed to treat mdd, but their effectiveness can vary from person to person. additionally, emerging evidence suggests that mdd may be linked to immune dysregulation and inflammation. in this context, immunomodulatory agents have been proposed as a potential alternative therapy for mdd. this abstract presents a review of the literature on the effect of ssris and immunomodulators on cytokine levels in patients with mdd. the review highlights the potential of immunomodulators as a new approach to treating mdd by targeting the underlying immune dysregulation. the findings suggest that immunomodulatory agents may improve the efficacy of ssris in treating mdd, and further research is needed to explore this potential therapeutic approach in more detail.", "pol_abstract": "this study aimed to investigate the impact of combining selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (ssris) with an immunomodulator, human dialyzable leukocyte extract (hdle), on cortisol and cytokine levels in patients with major depressive disorder (mdd). mdd is characterized by a deficiency in serotonergic neurotransmission in the central nervous system and altered levels of cortisol and cytokines. ssris are commonly used as a first-line treatment for mdd. the levels of proinflammatory cytokines il-1\u03b2, il-2, and ifn-\u03b3, anti-inflammatory cytokines il-13 and il-10, and 24-hour urine cortisol were measured at various time points (weeks 0, 5, 20, 36, and 52) in patients who received either ssris alone or ssris in combination with hdle.", "mix_abstract": "major_depressive_disorder ( mdd ) is a psychiatric illness that presents as a deficit of serotonergic neurotransmission in the central nervous system  the study aimed to investigate the impact of combining an immunomodulator, human dialyzable leukocyte extract (hdle), with selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (ssris) on cortisol and cytokine levels in patients with major depressive disorder (mdd). it is well-established that mdd patients experience changes in cortisol and cytokine levels, and ssris are the primary antidepressant treatment for this condition. the study involved administering either ssris alone or a combination of ssris and hdle to the patients.  the proinflammatory cytokines il-1 \u03b2 , il-2 , and ifn- \u03b3 ; anti-inflammatory cytokines il-13 and il-10 ; and 24-h urine cortisol were measured at weeks ( w ) 0 , 5 , 20 , 36 , and 52 of"}
{"title": "delayed administration of a bio-engineered zinc-finger vegf-a gene therapy is neuroprotective and attenuates allodynia following traumatic spinal_cord_injury", "abstract": "following spinal_cord_injury ( sci ) there are drastic changes that occur in the spinal microvasculature , including ischemia , hemorrhage , endothelial cell death and blood-spinal cord barrier disruption . vascular endothelial growth factor-a ( vegf-a ) is a pleiotropic factor recognized for its pro-angiogenic properties ; however , vegf has recently been shown to provide neuroprotection . we hypothesized that delivery of adv-zfp-vegf \u2013 an adenovirally delivered bio-engineered zinc-finger transcription factor that promotes endogenous vegf-a expression \u2013 would result in angiogenesis , neuroprotection and functional recovery following sci . this novel vegf gene therapy induces the endogenous production of multiple vegf-a isoforms ; a critical factor for proper vascular development and repair .", "gen_abstract": "this study investigates the potential neuroprotective effects of a bio-engineered zinc-finger vegf-a gene therapy when administered after a traumatic spinal cord injury. the researchers explore whether delaying the therapy's administration impacts its efficacy in reducing the symptoms of allodynia, a common neuropathic pain symptom. results show that delayed administration of the therapy is still effective in providing neuroprotection and reducing allodynia in a preclinical model of spinal cord injury. these findings suggest that the bio-engineered zinc-finger vegf-a gene therapy may have potential as a therapeutic option for individuals with spinal cord injury, even if treatment is delayed.", "pol_abstract": "after spinal cord injury (sci), significant changes occur in the microvasculature of the spinal cord, including disruption of the blood-spinal cord barrier, ischemia, hemorrhage, and endothelial cell death. vascular endothelial growth factor-a (vegf-a) is a factor that promotes angiogenesis and has recently been discovered to provide neuroprotection. our hypothesis is that administering adv-zfp-vegf, which is a bio-engineered zinc-finger transcription factor that induces endogenous vegf-a expression via adenoviral delivery, will lead to functional recovery, neuroprotection, and angiogenesis following sci. this innovative vegf gene therapy stimulates the production of several vegf-a isoforms, which is crucial for appropriate vascular repair and development.", "mix_abstract": "following spinal_cord_injury ( sci ) there are drastic changes that occur in the spinal microvasculature , including ischemia , hemorrhage , endothelial cell death and blood-spinal cord barrier disruption  vegf-a is a multifaceted factor known for its ability to promote the growth of blood vessels, a process called angiogenesis. however, recent studies have revealed that it also has a role in protecting nerve cells. our hypothesis was that administering adv-zfp-vegf, a bio-engineered transcription factor that promotes the production of vegf-a, could lead to the growth of new blood vessels, protection of nerve cells, and restoration of function after spinal cord injury. this innovative gene therapy prompts the body to produce several different forms of vegf-a, which are essential for proper vascular development and repair."}
{"title": "acid-base disorders as predictors of early outcomes in major trauma in a resource limited setting : an observational prospective study", "abstract": "introduction mortality from trauma remains a major challenge despite recent substantial improvements in acute trauma care . in trauma care patient resuscitation to correct hypotension from volume loss still majorly relies on use of physiological parameters such as blood pressure , pulse rate , respiratory rate , urine output and oxygen saturation . in resource limited settings these methods may not be sufficient to detect occult tissue hypoxia and the accompanying metabolic derangements . methods a prospective observational study carried out at a level i urban trauma centre ; accident and emergency unit . major_trauma patients were consecutively recruited into the study .", "gen_abstract": "this observational prospective study aimed to investigate whether acid-base disorders could serve as predictors of early outcomes in major trauma patients in a resource-limited setting. the study was conducted on a sample of trauma patients admitted to a hospital in a resource-limited setting, with their acid-base parameters measured on admission. the study found that acid-base disorders, particularly metabolic acidosis, were significantly associated with poorer early outcomes, including mortality and longer hospital stays. these findings highlight the potential value of acid-base parameters as simple, readily available tools to help identify trauma patients at higher risk of adverse early outcomes in resource-limited settings.", "pol_abstract": "despite significant advancements in acute trauma care, mortality from trauma remains a significant challenge. physiological parameters such as blood pressure, pulse rate, respiratory rate, urine output, and oxygen saturation are still majorly relied upon for patient resuscitation to correct hypotension resulting from volume loss in trauma care. however, in resource-limited settings, these methods may not be enough to detect occult tissue hypoxia and its associated metabolic derangements. this prospective observational study was conducted at a level i urban trauma center's accident and emergency unit, where consecutive recruitment of major trauma patients was performed.", "mix_abstract": "despite significant advancements in acute trauma care, mortality resulting from trauma continues to pose a major challenge.  in trauma care patient resuscitation to correct hypotension from volume loss still majorly relies on use of physiological parameters such as blood pressure , pulse rate , respiratory rate , urine output and oxygen saturation  \"in resource-limited settings, these methods may not be sufficient to detect occult tissue hypoxia and the accompanying metabolic derangements. in this prospective observational study, which was carried out at a level i urban trauma centre's accident and emergency unit, major trauma patients were consecutively recruited into the study.\""}
{"title": "use of databases for early recognition of risk of diabetic complication by analysis of liver enzymes in type 2 diabetes mellitus", "abstract": "introduction : because of increasing prevalence of t2md worldwide , it \u2019 s very important to recognize risk factors for diabetic complications , as soon as possible . symptoms of complications appear a few or many years after tissue damage . so , it \u2019 s imperative to establish surveillance of diabetics with laboratory and other diagnostic procedures for early recognition of diabetic complications . follow up of clinical curs of diabetes , by using databases of patients , provide possibility for permanent analysis of important laboratory parameters and any changes could be registered . although an emerging evidence suggests a strong association of alt ( alanine aminotransferase ) and \u03b3gt ( gamma glutamyl transferase ) activity with type_2_diabetes_mellitus ( t2dm ) , only a limited number of studies have analyzed the association of ast ( aspartate aminotransferase ) , alt , \u03b3gt , and alp ( alkaline phosphatase ) activities in controlled", "gen_abstract": "the early recognition and management of diabetic complications are essential for improving outcomes in patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus (t2dm). one potential approach is the analysis of liver enzymes, which may provide insights into metabolic dysfunction and risk of complications. however, the large amounts of data generated by such analyses can be difficult to manage and interpret. databases provide a solution to this challenge, enabling the efficient organization and analysis of data to identify key patterns and trends. this abstract explores the potential of databases for early recognition of the risk of diabetic complications by analyzing liver enzymes in patients with t2dm. it highlights the benefits of a database approach, including improved efficiency, accuracy, and consistency of data analysis, and the potential for greater insights into the underlying mechanisms of complications. overall, this abstract suggests that the use of databases for analyzing liver enzymes in t2dm patients holds promise as a tool for early recognition and improved management of diabetic complications.", "pol_abstract": "due to the increasing global prevalence of type 2 diabetes (t2dm), identifying risk factors for diabetic complications as early as possible is crucial. complication symptoms often appear years after tissue damage, emphasizing the need for surveillance of diabetics using laboratory and diagnostic procedures for early recognition. by utilizing patient databases to monitor diabetes clinical courses, important laboratory parameters can be analyzed and any changes recorded. although current evidence links alt and \u03b3gt activity with t2dm, few studies have investigated the association of ast, alt, \u03b3gt, and alp activities in controlled settings.", "mix_abstract": "as the global incidence of t2md continues to rise, it is crucial to promptly identify the risk factors for diabetic complications. unfortunately, symptoms of these complications may only become apparent several years after tissue damage has occurred. therefore, it is imperative to implement monitoring protocols that utilize laboratory tests and other diagnostic procedures to facilitate early detection of diabetic complications in individuals with diabetes.  follow up of clinical curs of diabetes , by using databases of patients , provide possibility for permanent analysis of important laboratory parameters and any changes could be registered    although an emerging evidence suggests a strong association of alt ( alanine aminotransferase ) and \u03b3gt ( gamma glutamyl transferase ) activity with type_2_diabetes_mellitus ( t2dm ) , only a limited number of studies have analyzed the association of ast ( aspartate aminotransferase ) , alt , \u03b3gt , and alp ( alkaline phosphatase ) activities in controlled"}
{"title": "acquisition of genetic aberrations by activation-induced_cytidine_deaminase ( aid ) during inflammation-associated carcinogenesis", "abstract": "genetic abnormalities such as nucleotide alterations and chromosomal disorders that accumulate in various tumor-related genes have an important role in cancer development . the precise mechanism of the acquisition of genetic aberrations , however , remains unclear . activation-induced_cytidine_deaminase ( aid ) , a nucleotide editing enzyme , is essential for the diversification of antibody production . aid is expressed only in activated b lymphocytes under physiologic conditions and induces somatic hypermutation and class switch recombination in immunoglobulin genes . inflammation leads to aberrant aid expression in various gastrointestinal organs and increased aid expression contributes to cancer development by inducing genetic alterations in epithelial cells .", "gen_abstract": "the acquisition of genetic aberrations is a crucial step in inflammation-associated carcinogenesis, and activation-induced_cytidine_deaminase (aid) has been implicated in this process. aid is an enzyme that plays a role in somatic hypermutation and class switch recombination in b cells. however, recent evidence suggests that aid can also induce dna damage and genetic mutations in non-immune cells during chronic inflammation. in this review, we examine the current understanding of the role of aid in inflammation-associated carcinogenesis, including the mechanisms by which aid promotes dna damage and mutations. we also discuss the potential clinical implications of targeting aid for cancer prevention and therapy. overall, this review highlights the critical role of aid in the acquisition of genetic aberrations during inflammation-associated carcinogenesis and provides insights into novel therapeutic strategies for cancer treatment.", "pol_abstract": "the development of cancer is significantly influenced by genetic abnormalities, including nucleotide alterations and chromosomal disorders, that accumulate in genes associated with tumors. although the exact process by which genetic aberrations are acquired is not well understood, the activation-induced cytidine deaminase (aid) enzyme, responsible for nucleotide editing, is believed to play a crucial role. aid is typically only found in activated b lymphocytes where it promotes somatic hypermutation and class switch recombination in immunoglobulin genes. however, in the presence of inflammation, aid expression can become abnormal in various gastrointestinal organs, resulting in increased aid expression and contributing to cancer development by inducing genetic alterations in epithelial cells.", "mix_abstract": "the development of cancer is significantly influenced by genetic abnormalities, including nucleotide alterations and chromosomal disorders, that occur in genes associated with tumors. the process through which these genetic aberrations are acquired is not yet fully understood. activation-induced cytidine deaminase (aid) is a nucleotide editing enzyme that plays a critical role in generating diverse antibodies. in physiological conditions, aid expression is limited to activated b lymphocytes and induces somatic hypermutation and class switch recombination in immunoglobulin genes.  inflammation leads to aberrant aid expression in various gastrointestinal organs and increased aid expression contributes to cancer development by inducing genetic alterations in epithelial cells"}
{"title": "the e3 ubiquitin ligase trim62 and inflammation-induced skeletal muscle_atrophy", "abstract": "introduction icu-acquired weakness ( icuaw ) complicates the disease course of critically ill patients . inflammation and acute-phase response occur directly within myocytes and contribute to icuaw . we observed that tripartite motif\u2013containing 62 ( trim62 ) , an e3 ubiquitin ligase and modifier of inflammation , is increased in the skeletal muscle of icuaw patients . we investigated the regulation and function of muscular trim62 in critical illness . methods twenty-six critically ill patients with sequential organ failure assessment scores \u22658 underwent two skeletal muscle biopsies from the vastus lateralis at median days 5 and 15 in the icu .", "gen_abstract": "the e3 ubiquitin ligase trim62 has been implicated in the regulation of inflammation-induced skeletal muscle atrophy. in this review, we explore the current understanding of the role of trim62 in the ubiquitin-proteasome system and its potential involvement in muscle wasting. we discuss the various signaling pathways and factors that contribute to the regulation of trim62 expression and activity in response to inflammation and highlight the potential therapeutic implications of targeting trim62 for the treatment of muscle wasting associated with inflammatory conditions. overall, this review sheds light on the intricate molecular mechanisms underlying trim62-mediated regulation of skeletal muscle atrophy and provides insight into potential avenues for future research.", "pol_abstract": "icu-acquired weakness (icuaw) is a complication that arises during the disease course of critically ill patients, which can be caused by inflammation and acute-phase response directly affecting myocytes. our observations indicate that trim62, an e3 ubiquitin ligase and modifier of inflammation, is upregulated in the skeletal muscle of icuaw patients. in this study, we investigated the regulation and function of trim62 in the skeletal muscle of critically ill patients by conducting two skeletal muscle biopsies from the vastus lateralis of 26 patients with sequential organ failure assessment scores \u22658, on median days 5 and 15 of their icu stay.", "mix_abstract": "icu-acquired weakness (icuaw) is a complication that arises in critically ill patients and affects their disease progression. the condition is linked to inflammation and acute-phase response occurring within myocytes, which contribute to the development of icuaw. our study found increased levels of tripartite motif\u2013containing 62 (trim62) in the skeletal muscle of patients with icuaw. trim62 is an e3 ubiquitin ligase and modifier of inflammation. thus, we sought to explore the regulation and function of trim62 in the skeletal muscle of critically ill patients.  methods twenty-six critically ill patients with sequential organ failure assessment scores \u22658 underwent two skeletal muscle biopsies from the vastus lateralis at median days 5 and 15 in the icu"}
{"title": "capsaicin-sensitive sensory nerves are necessary for the protective effect of ghrelin in cerulein-induced acute_pancreatitis in rats", "abstract": "ghrelin was shown to exhibit protective and therapeutic effect in the gut . aim of the study was to investigate the role of sensory nerves ( sn ) in the protective effect of ghrelin in acute_pancreatitis ( ap ) . studies were performed on male wistar rats or isolated pancreatic acinar cells . after capsaicin deactivation of sensory nerves ( cdsn ) or treatment with saline , rats were pretreated intraperitoneally with ghrelin or saline . in those rats , ap was induced by cerulein or pancreases were used for isolation of pancreatic acinar cells . pancreatic acinar cells were incubated in cerulein-free or cerulein containing solution .", "gen_abstract": "the aim of this study was to investigate the role of capsaicin-sensitive sensory nerves in the protective effect of ghrelin against cerulein-induced acute pancreatitis in rats. rats were subjected to cerulein-induced pancreatitis and treated with either ghrelin or a control solution. the researchers found that ghrelin treatment reduced the severity of pancreatitis, as evidenced by decreased serum levels of amylase and lipase, reduced histological damage, and decreased inflammation. additionally, they found that the protective effect of ghrelin was dependent on capsaicin-sensitive sensory nerves, as blocking these nerves with resiniferatoxin eliminated the protective effect of ghrelin. these findings suggest that ghrelin may have therapeutic potential in the treatment of acute pancreatitis and that capsaicin-sensitive sensory nerves play an important role in the protective effect of ghrelin.", "pol_abstract": "the protective and therapeutic effects of ghrelin in the gut have been demonstrated, and this study aimed to examine the role of sensory nerves (sn) in the protective effect of ghrelin in acute pancreatitis (ap). the experiments were conducted on male wistar rats and isolated pancreatic acinar cells. the rats were pretreated with ghrelin or saline by intraperitoneal injection, and after capsaicin deactivation of sensory nerves (cdsn) or saline treatment, ap was induced using cerulein. the pancreatic acinar cells were either incubated in cerulein-free or cerulein-containing solution, or used for isolation of pancreatic acinar cells.", "mix_abstract": "studies have demonstrated that ghrelin has beneficial and healing properties in the gastrointestinal tract.  aim of the study was to investigate the role of sensory nerves ( sn ) in the protective effect of ghrelin in acute_pancreatitis ( ap )  the following is a polished version of the text:\n\nthe study involved male wistar rats or isolated pancreatic acinar cells. prior to inducing acute pancreatitis (ap) using cerulein or isolating pancreatic acinar cells, rats were either treated with ghrelin or saline after capsaicin deactivation of sensory nerves (cdsn) or treatment with saline. the pancreatic acinar cells were incubated in a solution containing cerulein or a cerulein-free solution."}
{"title": "metabolic reprogramming induced by ketone bodies diminishes pancreatic_cancer_cachexia", "abstract": "background aberrant energy metabolism is a hallmark of cancer . to fulfill the increased energy requirements , tumor cells secrete cytokines/factors inducing muscle and fat degradation in cancer patients , a condition known as cancer_cachexia . it accounts for nearly 20 % of all cancer-related deaths . however , the mechanistic basis of cancer_cachexia and therapies targeting cancer_cachexia thus far remain elusive . a ketogenic diet , a high-fat and low-carbohydrate diet that elevates circulating levels of ketone bodies ( i.e . , acetoacetate , \u03b2-hydroxybutyrate , and acetone ) , serves as an alternative energy source . it has also been proposed that a ketogenic diet leads to systemic metabolic changes .", "gen_abstract": "pancreatic cancer is one of the deadliest forms of cancer, and cachexia, a syndrome characterized by weight loss and muscle wasting, is a major contributor to poor patient outcomes. recent studies have shown that metabolic reprogramming induced by ketone bodies may be a promising strategy for mitigating cachexia in pancreatic cancer patients. this abstract explores the potential of ketone body-induced metabolic reprogramming in diminishing pancreatic cancer cachexia. the article discusses the underlying mechanisms of how ketone bodies modulate metabolism in pancreatic cancer cells and highlights preclinical studies that support the efficacy of ketone body-based interventions in preventing and reversing cachexia. additionally, the potential clinical applications of ketone body-based interventions in pancreatic cancer patients are discussed. overall, this article suggests that targeting the metabolism of pancreatic cancer cells through ketone body-based interventions may be a promising approach for preventing or treating cachexia in these patients.", "pol_abstract": "the abnormal energy metabolism that characterizes cancer is associated with a condition known as cancer cachexia, in which tumor cells release cytokines/factors that promote degradation of muscle and fat, resulting in increased energy requirements and accounting for approximately 20% of cancer-related deaths. despite the prevalence of cancer cachexia, its underlying mechanisms and potential treatments are not well understood. a ketogenic diet, which is high in fat and low in carbohydrates, can increase levels of circulating ketone bodies (such as acetoacetate, \u03b2-hydroxybutyrate, and acetone) and provide an alternative energy source. furthermore, it has been suggested that a ketogenic diet can induce systemic metabolic changes.", "mix_abstract": "revised: \n\nbackground: aberrant energy metabolism is a hallmark of cancer. to meet the increased energy demands, tumor cells secrete cytokines and factors that induce muscle and fat degradation in cancer patients. this condition is known as cancer cachexia and accounts for nearly 20% of all cancer-related deaths.  however , the mechanistic basis of cancer_cachexia and therapies targeting cancer_cachexia thus far remain elusive  a ketogenic diet is a high-fat, low-carbohydrate diet that increases the circulating levels of ketone bodies (i.e., acetoacetate, \u03b2-hydroxybutyrate, and acetone). this type of diet serves as an alternative source of energy. it has also been suggested that a ketogenic diet can lead to systemic metabolic changes."}
{"title": "interspinous_bursitis is common in polymyalgia_rheumatica , but is not associated with spinal_pain", "abstract": "introduction polymyalgia_rheumatica ( pmr ) is a common inflammatory disease in older people characterized by shoulder and/or pelvic girdle , and cervical and , occasionally , lumbar pain . interspinous_bursitis has been suggested as a potential cause of spinal symptoms . we evaluated , by 18 f-fluorodeoxyglucose ( fdg ) positron emission tomography integrated with computed tomography ( pet/ct ) , the vertebral structures involved in pmr in a cohort of consecutive , untreated patients . methods sixty-five consecutive patients with pmr were studied . after a standardized physical examination , which included evaluation of pain and tenderness in the vertebral column , they underwent fdg-pet/ct .", "gen_abstract": "the abstract for \"interspinous_bursitis is common in polymyalgia_rheumatica , but is not associated with spinal_pain\" can be written as follows:\n\npolymyalgia rheumatica (pmr) is a common inflammatory disorder affecting the elderly population. interspinous bursitis (isb) is a known complication of pmr, but its association with spinal pain is unclear. the objective of this study is to investigate the prevalence of isb in pmr patients and its association with spinal pain. a cross-sectional study was conducted on 100 pmr patients. magnetic resonance imaging (mri) was used to diagnose isb and assess spinal pain. the results showed that 63% of pmr patients had isb, but only 14% reported spinal pain. there was no significant association between isb and spinal pain (p=0.23). in conclusion, isb is a common complication of pmr, but it does not seem to be associated with spinal pain. further studies are needed to explore the pathophysiology of isb in pmr patients.", "pol_abstract": "this study aimed to examine the potential role of interspinous bursitis in causing spinal symptoms in polymyalgia rheumatica (pmr), a common inflammatory disease among older people characterized by pain in the shoulder and/or pelvic girdle, and cervical and occasionally lumbar regions. to achieve this, we evaluated the vertebral structures involved in pmr in a cohort of untreated patients using 18 f-fluorodeoxyglucose (fdg) positron emission tomography integrated with computed tomography (pet/ct). the study involved 65 consecutive pmr patients who underwent fdg-pet/ct after a standardized physical examination, which included an evaluation of pain and tenderness in the vertebral column. the goal was to determine the specific vertebral structures involved in pmr.", "mix_abstract": "introduction:\n\npolymyalgia rheumatica (pmr) is a prevalent inflammatory disease that affects older people, and is characterized by pain in the shoulder and/or pelvic girdle, as well as in the cervical and occasionally lumbar regions. interspinous bursitis has been proposed as a possible cause of spinal symptoms.  we evaluated , by 18 f-fluorodeoxyglucose ( fdg ) positron emission tomography integrated with computed tomography ( pet/ct ) , the vertebral structures involved in pmr in a cohort of consecutive , untreated patients  a total of 65 consecutive patients diagnosed with pmr were included in the study. following a standardized physical examination that assessed pain and tenderness in the vertebral column, all patients underwent fdg-pet/ct."}
{"title": "her2 overexpression and amplification is present in a subset of ovarian mucinous_carcinomas and can be targeted with trastuzumab therapy", "abstract": "background the response rate of ovarian mucinous_carcinomas to paclitaxel/carboplatin is low , prompting interest in targeted molecular therapies . we investigated her2 expression and amplification , and the potential for trastuzumab therapy in this histologic subtype of ovarian cancer . methods her2 status was tested in 33 mucinous_carcinomas and 16 mucinous borderline ovarian tumors ( bot ) ) . five cases with documented recurrence and with tissue from the recurrence available for testing were analyzed to determine whether her2 amplification status changed over time . three prospectively identified recurrent mucinous ovarian carcinomas were assessed for her2 amplification and patients received trastuzumab therapy with conventional chemotherapy .", "gen_abstract": "\n\nthis study aims to investigate the presence of her2 overexpression and amplification in a specific subset of ovarian mucinous carcinomas and evaluate the potential efficacy of trastuzumab therapy for targeting these tumors. the study involves analyzing the her2 status of a cohort of ovarian mucinous carcinoma samples and identifying the proportion of tumors with her2 overexpression and amplification. the results show that a subset of ovarian mucinous carcinomas have her2 overexpression and amplification and may benefit from trastuzumab therapy. this study suggests that targeted her2 therapy could be a potential treatment option for this specific subset of ovarian mucinous carcinomas.", "pol_abstract": "the low response rate of ovarian mucinous carcinomas to paclitaxel/carboplatin has led to an interest in targeted molecular therapies. the purpose of this study was to investigate the potential for trastuzumab therapy in this histologic subtype of ovarian cancer by examining her2 expression and amplification. her2 status was tested in 33 mucinous carcinomas and 16 mucinous borderline ovarian tumors. additionally, five cases with documented recurrence were analyzed to determine whether her2 amplification status changed over time. three prospectively identified recurrent mucinous ovarian carcinomas were assessed for her2 amplification, and patients received trastuzumab therapy with conventional chemotherapy. the results of this study may help to guide targeted therapy options for ovarian mucinous carcinomas.", "mix_abstract": "in this study, we explored the potential for targeted molecular therapies in the treatment of ovarian mucinous carcinomas, as the response rate to paclitaxel/carboplatin is low. specifically, we investigated her2 expression and amplification in this histologic subtype of ovarian cancer and assessed the suitability of trastuzumab therapy. to accomplish this, we tested her2 status in a total of 33 mucinous carcinomas and 16 mucinous borderline ovarian tumors (bot). the findings of this investigation are presented in this abstract.  five cases with documented recurrence and with tissue from the recurrence available for testing were analyzed to determine whether her2 amplification status changed over time  three recurrent mucinous ovarian carcinomas that had been prospectively identified were evaluated for her2 amplification. the patients were subsequently treated with conventional chemotherapy in addition to trastuzumab therapy."}
{"title": "post-inhaled corticosteroid_pulmonary_tuberculosis and pneumonia increases lung_cancer in patients with copd", "abstract": "background inhaled corticosteroids ( ics ) have been associated with decreased lung_cancer risk . however , they have been associated with pulmonary infections ( tuberculosis [ tb ] and pneumonia ) in patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease ( copd ) . tb and pneumonia have increased lung_cancer risk . the association between post-ics pulmonary infections and lung_cancer remains unclear . methods we conducted a retrospective cohort study from 2003 to 2010 using the taiwan national health insurance research database . among the 1,089,955 patients with copd , we identified 8813 new users of ics prescribed for a period of 3 months or more and 35,252 non-ics users who were randomly matched for sex , age and date of ics use from 2003 to", "gen_abstract": "the use of inhaled corticosteroids (ics) is a common treatment for patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (copd), but recent studies have suggested that ics use may be associated with an increased risk of developing pulmonary tuberculosis (tb) and pneumonia. moreover, patients with copd who develop these respiratory infections may be at higher risk of developing lung cancer. this abstract summarizes the findings of recent research that explores the relationship between ics use, pulmonary tb and pneumonia, and their impact on lung cancer risk in patients with copd. the study concludes that post-ics pulmonary tb and pneumonia are associated with an increased risk of lung cancer in patients with copd, highlighting the need for careful monitoring and management of these patients to minimize their risk of developing lung cancer.", "pol_abstract": "background:\nalthough inhaled corticosteroids (ics) are linked to a reduced risk of lung cancer, they have also been linked to pulmonary infections such as tuberculosis (tb) and pneumonia, which increase the risk of lung cancer. the relationship between post-ics pulmonary infections and lung cancer risk is not yet clear.\n\nmethods:\nto investigate this, we conducted a retrospective cohort study using the taiwan national health insurance research database from 2003 to 2010. we identified 8813 new users of ics who were prescribed the medication for a period of 3 months or more, as well as 35,252 non-ics users who were matched for sex, age, and date of ics use from 2003. these individuals all had chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (copd).\n\nthe meaning of the abstract remains the same, but it has been slightly rephrased to improve clarity and flow.", "mix_abstract": "the use of inhaled corticosteroids (ics) has been linked to a reduced risk of lung cancer, but for individuals with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (copd), it has also been linked to an increased risk of pulmonary infections such as tuberculosis (tb) and pneumonia.  tb and pneumonia have increased lung_cancer risk  here's the polished text:\n\nthe relationship between pulmonary infections after inhaled corticosteroid (ics) use and lung cancer is currently uncertain. to investigate this association, we conducted a retrospective cohort study using the taiwan national health insurance research database from 2003 to 2010.  among the 1,089,955 patients with copd , we identified 8813 new users of ics prescribed for a period of 3 months or more and 35,252 non-ics users who were randomly matched for sex , age and date of ics use from 2003 to"}
{"title": "the dietary isothiocyanate sulforaphane modulates gene expression and alternative gene splicing in a pten null preclinical murine model of prostate_cancer", "abstract": "background dietary or therapeutic interventions to counteract the loss of pten expression could contribute to the prevention of prostate carcinogenesis or reduce the rate of cancer progression . in this study , we investigate the interaction between sulforaphane , a dietary isothiocyanate derived from broccoli , pten expression and gene expression in pre malignant prostate tissue . results we initially describe heterogeneity in expression of pten in non-malignant prostate tissue of men deemed to be at risk of prostate_cancer . we subsequently use the mouse prostate-specific pten deletion model , to show that sulforaphane suppresses transcriptional changes induced by pten deletion and induces additional changes in gene expression associated with cell cycle arrest and apoptosis in pten null tissue , but has no effect on transcription in wild type", "gen_abstract": "this study investigates the effect of dietary isothiocyanate sulforaphane on gene expression and alternative gene splicing in a preclinical murine model of prostate cancer with pten null mutation. the study found that sulforaphane significantly modulated gene expression and alternative splicing patterns, which may be involved in the regulation of tumor development and progression. these findings suggest that sulforaphane could be a potential therapeutic agent for the treatment of pten null prostate cancer, and further studies are warranted to explore its clinical applications.", "pol_abstract": "in this study, we aimed to explore the potential of dietary or therapeutic interventions to combat the loss of pten expression, which could aid in the prevention of prostate cancer or slow down its progression. specifically, we investigated how sulforaphane, a dietary isothiocyanate found in broccoli, interacts with pten expression and gene expression in pre-malignant prostate tissue. our results revealed heterogeneity in pten expression among non-malignant prostate tissue in men at risk of prostate cancer. furthermore, using a mouse model with prostate-specific pten deletion, we found that sulforaphane not only suppresses transcriptional changes induced by pten deletion but also induces additional changes in gene expression that lead to cell cycle arrest and apoptosis in pten null tissue. however, it has no effect on transcription in wild type tissue.", "mix_abstract": "background: dietary or therapeutic interventions aimed at countering the loss of pten expression may contribute to preventing prostate carcinogenesis or reducing the rate of cancer progression. in this study, we investigate the interaction between sulforaphane, a dietary isothiocyanate derived from broccoli, pten expression, and gene expression in pre-malignant prostate tissue.\n\nresults: we initially describe heterogeneity in the expression of pten in non-malignant prostate tissue of men deemed to be at risk of prostate cancer.  we subsequently use the mouse prostate-specific pten deletion model , to show that sulforaphane suppresses transcriptional changes induced by pten deletion and induces additional changes in gene expression associated with cell cycle arrest and apoptosis in pten null tissue , but has no effect on transcription in wild type"}
{"title": "protocol : does sodium_nitrite administration reduce ischaemia-reperfusion injury in patients presenting with acute st segment elevation_myocardial_infarction ? nitrites in acute myocardial_infarction ( niami )", "abstract": "background whilst advances in reperfusion therapies have reduced early mortality from acute myocardial_infarction , heart failure remains a common complication , and may develop very early or long after the acute event . reperfusion itself leads to further tissue damage , a process described as ischaemia-reperfusion-injury ( iri ) , which contributes up to 50 % of the final infarct size . in experimental models nitrite administration potently protects against iri in several organs , including the heart . in the current study we investigate whether intravenous sodium_nitrite administration immediately prior to percutaneous coronary intervention ( pci ) in patients with acute st segment elevation_myocardial_infarction will reduce myocardial_infarct size .", "gen_abstract": "the study titled \"protocol: does sodium nitrite administration reduce ischaemia-reperfusion injury in patients presenting with acute st segment elevation myocardial infarction? nitrites in acute myocardial infarction (niami)\" investigates the potential benefits of sodium nitrite administration for reducing ischaemia-reperfusion injury in patients with acute st segment elevation myocardial infarction. the study aims to evaluate the safety and efficacy of this intervention and explore its potential as a therapeutic option for treating this condition. the results of this study may have important implications for the treatment and management of patients with acute myocardial infarction, potentially improving outcomes and reducing the burden of this serious condition on both patients and healthcare systems.", "pol_abstract": "background: despite advancements in reperfusion therapies that have reduced early mortality from acute myocardial infarction, heart failure remains a prevalent complication that can develop soon after or long after the acute event. reperfusion itself can lead to further tissue damage, a process known as ischemia-reperfusion injury (iri), which can contribute up to 50% of the final infarct size. in experimental models, the administration of nitrite has been shown to effectively protect against iri in several organs, including the heart. in this current study, we aim to investigate if intravenous administration of sodium nitrite immediately before percutaneous coronary intervention (pci) in patients with acute st segment elevation myocardial infarction can reduce the size of myocardial infarction.", "mix_abstract": "background whilst advances in reperfusion therapies have reduced early mortality from acute myocardial_infarction , heart failure remains a common complication , and may develop very early or long after the acute event  rewritten: the process known as ischemia-reperfusion injury (iri) can cause further tissue damage during reperfusion, contributing up to 50% of the final infarct size. in experimental models, the administration of nitrite has been shown to effectively protect against iri in multiple organs, including the heart. in the present study, we aimed to investigate whether intravenous administration of sodium nitrite immediately prior to percutaneous coronary intervention (pci) in patients with acute st segment elevation myocardial infarction can reduce myocardial infarct size."}
{"title": "pain relief and improved physical function in knee osteoarthritis patients receiving ongoing hylan_g-f_20 , a high-molecular-weight hyaluronan , versus other treatment options : data from a large real-world longitudinal cohort in canada", "abstract": "from the southwestern ontario database , one of the largest primary-care datasets in canada , 1,263 patients with osteoarthritis ( oa ) of one or both knees were identified who received two consecutive series of intra-articular ( ia ) injections of hylan_g-f_20 preparation and no other prescribed oa medications , and were evaluated fully between 2006 and 2012 . a cohort of 3,318 demographically matched oa patients who had not been treated with ia injection therapy was identified from the same database for comparison . responses to therapy were assessed by means of a 10-point visual analog scale ( vas ) for pain at rest and after completion of a 6-minute walk test ( 6mwt ) , while physical capacity was measured by performance in the 6mwt", "gen_abstract": "this abstract summarizes the findings from a real-world longitudinal cohort study conducted in canada comparing the efficacy of hylan g-f 20, a high-molecular-weight hyaluronan, in providing pain relief and improving physical function in knee osteoarthritis patients versus other treatment options. the study included a large sample of patients with knee osteoarthritis, who were followed up over a period of time. the results showed that patients receiving ongoing hylan g-f 20 treatment had significant pain relief and improved physical function compared to those receiving other treatment options. these findings suggest that hylan g-f 20 may be an effective treatment option for knee osteoarthritis patients in real-world settings.", "pol_abstract": "using data from the southwestern ontario database, which is one of the largest primary-care datasets in canada, we identified 1,263 patients with osteoarthritis (oa) in one or both knees. these patients received two consecutive series of intra-articular (ia) injections of hylan-g-f_20 preparation and no other prescribed oa medications. they were fully evaluated between 2006 and 2012. we also identified a cohort of 3,318 demographically matched oa patients from the same database who had not received ia injection therapy. we compared the two groups by assessing their responses to therapy using a 10-point visual analog scale (vas) for pain at rest and after completing a 6-minute walk test (6mwt). in addition, we measured their physical capacity by evaluating their performance in the 6mwt.", "mix_abstract": "a group of 1,263 patients diagnosed with osteoarthritis (oa) in one or both knees, who received two consecutive series of intra-articular (ia) injections of hylan_g-f_20 preparation without any other prescribed oa medications, were fully evaluated between 2006 and 2012. this data was collected from the southwestern ontario database, which is one of the largest primary-care datasets in canada. for comparison, a cohort of 3,318 demographically matched oa patients who had not received ia injection therapy was also identified from the same database.  responses to therapy were assessed by means of a 10-point visual analog scale ( vas ) for pain at rest and after completion of a 6-minute walk test ( 6mwt ) , while physical capacity was measured by performance in the 6mwt"}
{"title": "hypothyroidism causing paralytic_ileus and acute_kidney_injury - case report", "abstract": "we present a patient with severe hypothyroidism complicated by paralytic_ileus and acute_kidney_injury . a 65 year old male patient , diagnosed with hypothyroidism one year ago was transferred to our unit in a state of drowsiness and confusion . he was severely hypothyroid and had paralytic_ileus and impaired renal function at the time of transfer . hypokalaemia was present , and was likely to have contributed to the paralytic_ileus and this together with dehydration was likely to have contributed to renal injury . nonetheless , hypothyroidism is very likely to have been the principal precipitant of both these complications , and both paralytic_ileus and acute_kidney_injury improved with thyroxine replacement .", "gen_abstract": "this case report describes a rare presentation of hypothyroidism that led to paralytic ileus and acute kidney injury in a patient. hypothyroidism is a common endocrine disorder characterized by decreased thyroid hormone production, but its association with paralytic ileus and acute kidney injury is not well established. the patient's symptoms, diagnosis, and treatment are discussed in detail, highlighting the importance of considering hypothyroidism as a potential underlying cause of these conditions. the case report underscores the need for healthcare providers to be aware of the potential complications of hypothyroidism and the importance of prompt diagnosis and treatment to prevent serious complications such as paralytic ileus and acute kidney injury.", "pol_abstract": "in this case report, we describe a 65-year-old male patient with severe hypothyroidism who experienced paralytic ileus and acute kidney injury. the patient had been diagnosed with hypothyroidism one year prior and was admitted to our unit in a confused and drowsy state. upon admission, he was found to be severely hypothyroid and had paralytic ileus and impaired renal function. the presence of hypokalemia likely contributed to the paralytic ileus, and dehydration likely contributed to the renal injury. however, we believe that hypothyroidism was the main cause of both complications, as they both improved following thyroxine replacement therapy.", "mix_abstract": "our case report features a 65-year-old man who was diagnosed with hypothyroidism a year ago and presented to our medical facility in a disoriented and lethargic state. upon examination, we discovered that he was suffering from severe hypothyroidism, paralytic ileus, and impaired kidney function. hypokalemia was also observed, which may have played a role in the development of paralytic ileus, while dehydration may have contributed to his renal injury.  nonetheless , hypothyroidism is very likely to have been the principal precipitant of both these complications , and both paralytic_ileus and acute_kidney_injury improved with thyroxine replacement"}
{"title": "associations of gestational diabetes , existing diabetes , and glycosuria with offspring obesity and cardiometabolic outcomes", "abstract": "objective to assess associations of gestational_diabetes , existing diabetes , and glycosuria with adiposity and cardiometabolic risk factors in offspring at adolescence . research design and methods multivariable regression analyses were conducted in a prospective pregnancy cohort ( n = 2,563\u20134,198 for different outcomes ) . obstetric data were abstracted from clinical records . offspring outcomes were assessed at mean age 15.5 years . compared with those lost to follow-up , participants included in the analysis were of higher socioeconomic position . outcomes included bmi , waist circumference , fat mass determined by dual-energy x-ray absorptiometry scan , systolic and diastolic blood pressure ( sbp and dbp , respectively ) , fasting glucose , insulin , lipids , and c-reactive protein ( crp", "gen_abstract": "this study aims to investigate the associations between gestational diabetes, existing diabetes, and glycosuria with offspring obesity and cardiometabolic outcomes. the study will review existing literature and conduct a meta-analysis of observational studies to examine the relationship between maternal diabetes and glycosuria during pregnancy and the subsequent risk of offspring obesity, insulin resistance, type 2 diabetes, and cardiovascular disease. the findings of this study will provide important insights into the potential long-term health consequences of maternal metabolic disturbances during pregnancy and may inform preventive strategies to reduce the burden of obesity and cardiometabolic diseases in future generations.", "pol_abstract": "the aim of this study was to evaluate the relationship between gestational diabetes, existing diabetes, and glycosuria with adiposity and cardiometabolic risk factors in adolescent offspring. a prospective pregnancy cohort was used for the study, and multivariable regression analyses were conducted on a sample size of 2,563 to 4,198 for various outcomes. obstetric data was obtained from clinical records, and offspring outcomes were assessed at an average age of 15.5 years. the participants included in the analysis were of a higher socioeconomic status compared to those lost to follow-up. the outcomes analyzed in the study comprised of bmi, waist circumference, fat mass measured by dual-energy x-ray absorptiometry, systolic and diastolic blood pressure (sbp and dbp), fasting glucose, insulin, lipids, and c-reactive protein (crp), without altering the meaning of the original abstract.", "mix_abstract": "objective: \nthe objective of this study is to assess the associations between gestational diabetes, existing diabetes, and glycosuria with adiposity and cardiometabolic risk factors in offspring during adolescence.\n\nresearch design and methods:\nmultivariable regression analyses were conducted in a prospective pregnancy cohort with a sample size ranging from 2,563 to 4,198 for different outcomes. obstetric data were abstracted from clinical records, and offspring outcomes were assessed at a mean age of 15.5 years. \n\nnote: i only made minor edits to the original text to make it grammatically correct and easier to read.  compared with those lost to follow-up , participants included in the analysis were of higher socioeconomic position    outcomes included bmi , waist circumference , fat mass determined by dual-energy x-ray absorptiometry scan , systolic and diastolic blood pressure ( sbp and dbp , respectively ) , fasting glucose , insulin , lipids , and c-reactive protein ( crp"}
{"title": "sickle_cell_disease and albuminuria : recent advances in our understanding of sickle_cell_nephropathy", "abstract": "abstract albuminuria is considered to be a relevant biomarker for the detection of early glomerular damage in patients with sickle_cell_disease ( scd ) . improvements in our understanding of the pathophysiological processes and molecular mechanisms underlying albuminuria are required , because increasing numbers of patients with scd are developing chronic kidney disease . the early recognition of sickle_cell_nephropathy ( scn ) and studies of the natural course of this emerging renal disease are therefore crucial , together with identification of the associated clinical and biological risk factors , to make it possible to initiate kidney-protective therapy at early stages of renal impairment .", "gen_abstract": "sickle cell disease (scd) is a hereditary blood disorder that affects millions of people worldwide. sickle cell nephropathy is a common complication of scd, characterized by kidney damage that leads to albuminuria, or the presence of albumin in the urine. in recent years, advances in our understanding of the pathophysiology of sickle cell nephropathy have shed light on the mechanisms underlying this condition. this review aims to summarize the recent advances in the diagnosis, management, and treatment of albuminuria in sickle cell nephropathy, including the use of biomarkers and novel therapies. additionally, the impact of genetic factors, environmental factors, and comorbidities on the development and progression of sickle cell nephropathy will be discussed. overall, this review provides a comprehensive overview of the current state of knowledge regarding sickle cell nephropathy and highlights the need for further research to improve the diagnosis and management of this condition.", "pol_abstract": "the biomarker albuminuria is relevant for detecting early glomerular damage in patients with sickle cell disease (scd). however, due to an increasing number of scd patients developing chronic kidney disease, there is a need to improve our understanding of the molecular mechanisms and pathophysiological processes underlying albuminuria. it is crucial to recognize sickle cell nephropathy (scn) early and study its natural course, along with identifying associated clinical and biological risk factors, in order to initiate early kidney-protective therapy and prevent further renal impairment.", "mix_abstract": "detecting early glomerular damage in patients with sickle cell disease (scd) can be achieved through the use of abstract albuminuria as a biomarker. however, as an increasing number of scd patients are developing chronic kidney disease, it is crucial to improve our understanding of the pathophysiological processes and molecular mechanisms that underlie albuminuria. this will aid in the early recognition of sickle cell nephropathy (scn) and facilitate the study of the natural course of this emerging renal disease. identifying the clinical and biological risk factors associated with scn is also necessary to initiate kidney-protective therapy at early stages of renal impairment."}
{"title": "a prospective population pharmacokinetic analysis of sapropterin_dihydrochloride in infants and young children with phenylketonuria", "abstract": "background and objectives untreated phenylketonuria ( pku ) , a hereditary metabolic disorder caused by a genetic mutation in phenylalanine hydroxylase ( pah ) , is characterized by elevated blood phenylalanine ( phe ) and severe neurologic disease . sapropterin_dihydrochloride , a synthetic preparation of naturally occurring pah cofactor tetrahydrobiopterin ( bh4 ) , activates residual pah in a subset of patients , resulting in decreased blood phe and increased phe tolerance . the objective of this study was to determine the appropriate dose of sapropterin in pediatric patients ( 0\u20136 years ) . the study design used d-optimization and was prospectively powered to achieve precise estimates of clearance and volume of distribution .", "gen_abstract": "\n\nthis prospective population pharmacokinetic analysis aims to evaluate the pharmacokinetics of sapropterin dihydrochloride in infants and young children with phenylketonuria. the study will be conducted using a population approach, which allows for the evaluation of inter-individual variability in pharmacokinetic parameters. the results of this study will provide important information on the pharmacokinetics of sapropterin dihydrochloride in this patient population, which can be used to inform dosing recommendations and optimize treatment for infants and young children with phenylketonuria.", "pol_abstract": "the aim of this study was to identify the optimal dosage of sapropterin, a synthetic form of tetrahydrobiopterin, for pediatric patients (aged 0-6 years) with untreated phenylketonuria. this hereditary metabolic disorder is caused by a genetic mutation in phenylalanine hydroxylase and is characterized by elevated blood phenylalanine levels and severe neurological disease. sapropterin has been shown to activate residual pah in some patients, leading to reduced blood phenylalanine levels and increased tolerance. the study used d-optimization and was designed to obtain precise estimates of clearance and volume of distribution.", "mix_abstract": "the study aimed to establish the correct dose of sapropterin for pediatric patients (aged 0-6 years) with phenylketonuria (pku), an inherited metabolic disorder caused by a genetic mutation in phenylalanine hydroxylase (pah). the disorder is characterized by high levels of blood phenylalanine (phe) and severe neurological disease if left untreated. sapropterin dihydrochloride, a synthetic version of the naturally occurring pah cofactor tetrahydrobiopterin (bh4), can activate residual pah in some patients, leading to decreased blood phe levels and improved phe tolerance.  the study design used d-optimization and was prospectively powered to achieve precise estimates of clearance and volume of distribution"}
{"title": "synovial_fluid macrophage_migration_inhibitory_factor levels correlate with severity of self-reported pain in knee osteoarthritis patients", "abstract": "background inflammation is considered as one of the main pathogeneses in oa-induced pain . macrophage_migration_inhibitory_factor ( mif ) is a well known pro-inflammatory cytokine . we aimed to determine whether mif levels in serum and synovial_fluid ( sf ) are associated with severity of oa-induced pain . material/methods we recruited 226 patients with knee oa and 106 controls . self-reported pain severity of oa patients was evaluated using the western ontario mcmaster university osteoarthritis ( womac ) pain scores . mif levels were detected using enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay ( elisa ) . results oa patients had similar serum mif levels compared to controls ( 11.93 [ 5.68\u201318.10 ] vs. 10.06 [ 6.60\u201314.61 ] ng/ml , p > 0.05 ) .", "gen_abstract": "this study investigates the potential correlation between macrophage migration inhibitory factor (mif) levels in synovial fluid and the severity of self-reported pain in patients with knee osteoarthritis (oa). synovial fluid samples were collected from patients with varying levels of knee oa, and mif levels were measured using an elisa assay. self-reported pain was assessed using various pain scales. the results suggest that there is a positive correlation between mif levels in synovial fluid and the severity of self-reported pain in knee oa patients. these findings could have important implications for the diagnosis and treatment of knee oa pain, as mif could potentially serve as a biomarker for pain severity in this patient population.", "pol_abstract": "in this study, we investigated the association between levels of the pro-inflammatory cytokine, macrophage_migration_inhibitory_factor (mif), and the severity of pain induced by osteoarthritis (oa). inflammation is recognized as a key factor in the development of oa-induced pain. we examined mif levels in the serum and synovial fluid (sf) of 226 knee oa patients and 106 controls. pain severity in oa patients was evaluated using the western ontario mcmaster university osteoarthritis (womac) pain scores. our results showed that there was no significant difference in serum mif levels between oa patients and controls (11.93 [5.68\u201318.10] vs. 10.06 [6.60\u201314.61] ng/ml, p > 0.05).", "mix_abstract": "background: pain induced by osteoarthritis (oa) is commonly attributed to inflammation, which is recognized as a major underlying mechanism.  macrophage_migration_inhibitory_factor ( mif ) is a well known pro-inflammatory cytokine    we aimed to determine whether mif levels in serum and synovial_fluid ( sf ) are associated with severity of oa-induced pain  material and methods: \nin this study, we recruited a total of 226 patients diagnosed with knee osteoarthritis (oa) and 106 control participants. the severity of pain reported by oa patients was assessed using the western ontario mcmaster university osteoarthritis (womac) pain scores. to detect mif levels, we employed enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (elisa) methodology.\n\nresults: our findings showed that the serum mif levels among the oa patients were similar to those observed in the control group. the mean mif level in the oa group was 11.93 [5...]. 68\u201318 one possible way to express this text differently is: \"10 compared to\".  10 the text indicates a measurement of a substance in a unit of ng/ml, with a value range of 6.60 to 14.61, and a statistical significance of p > 0.05, suggesting that the results are not statistically significant.\n\none possible way to express this differently is:\n\nthe substance was measured at a concentration of between 6.60 and 14.61 ng/ml, and the statistical analysis showed that the results were not significant (p > 0.05)."}
{"title": "hepatitis_b core igm antibody ( anti-hbcigm ) among hepatitis_b surface antigen ( hbsag ) negative blood donors in nigeria", "abstract": "background transfusion associated hepatitis_b virus ( tahbv ) continues to be a major problem despite mandatory screening for hepatitis_b surface antigen ( hbsag ) . presence of hbsag is the common method for detecting hepatitis_b infection . unfortunately , this marker is not detected during the window period of the infection . nigeria being a developing country can not afford dna testing of all collected units of blood which serve as the only possibility of achieving zero risk of transfusion associated hbv . five different serological makers of hepatitis_b virus ( hbv ) infection were therefore assessed to evaluate the reliability of using hbsag marker alone in diagnosis of hbv infection among blood donors and to detect the serological evidence of the infection at the window", "gen_abstract": "the prevalence of hepatitis b virus (hbv) infection remains high in nigeria, with a significant number of individuals carrying the virus without showing any symptoms. detection of hepatitis b surface antigen (hbsag) is the primary marker for diagnosing hbv infection, but a small proportion of individuals may have occult hbv infection that may not be detectable by hbsag testing alone. hepatitis b core igm antibody (anti-hbcigm) is a marker of acute hbv infection and can also be used to detect occult hbv infection. this study aimed to determine the prevalence of anti-hbcigm among hbsag-negative blood donors in nigeria. a total of 500 hbsag-negative blood donors were tested for anti-hbcigm using enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (elisa). the prevalence of anti-hbcigm among the study population was found to be 7.2%, indicating a significant proportion of individuals with acute or occult hbv infection. this study highlights the importance of screening for anti-hbcigm to improve the detection of hbv infection in nigeria and reduce the risk of transmission through blood transfusion.", "pol_abstract": "transfusion-associated hepatitis b virus (tahbv) remains a significant challenge, despite mandatory screening for hepatitis b surface antigen (hbsag), which is the standard method of detecting hepatitis b infection. however, this marker cannot detect the infection during the window period. dna testing of all collected blood units is expensive and not feasible for a developing country like nigeria, where blood donation is the only means of achieving zero transfusion-associated hbv risk. therefore, this study assessed the reliability of using five different serological markers of hbv infection in addition to hbsag to diagnose hbv infection among blood donors and detect evidence of the infection during the window period.", "mix_abstract": "background transfusion associated hepatitis_b virus ( tahbv ) continues to be a major problem despite mandatory screening for hepatitis_b surface antigen ( hbsag )  the presence of hbsag is a commonly used method for detecting hepatitis b infection. unfortunately, this marker may not be detected during the window period of the infection. as a developing country, nigeria cannot afford dna testing for all collected units of blood, which is the only way to achieve zero risk of transfusion-associated hbv.  five different serological makers of hepatitis_b virus ( hbv ) infection were therefore assessed to evaluate the reliability of using hbsag marker alone in diagnosis of hbv infection among blood donors and to detect the serological evidence of the infection at the window"}
{"title": "effect of caudal clonidine on emergence_agitation and postoperative analgesia after sevoflurane anaesthesia in children : randomised comparison of two doses", "abstract": "background and aims : sevoflurane , a popular inhalational anaesthetic for children , has been associated with significant emergence_agitation in the recovery phase . this study was intended to compare two doses of caudal clonidine added to ropivacaine 0.2 % in order to decide on the optimal dose for prevention of sevoflurane induced emergence_agitation ( ea ) and to get a meaningful prolongation of postoperative analgesia with minimal side effects . methods : sixty-one children aged 1\u20137 years ( american society of anaesthesiologists physical status i-ii ) received standardized general anaesthesia with inhaled sevoflurane and caudal epidural block with 0.2 % ropivacaine 1 ml/kg for sub-umbilical surgeries .", "gen_abstract": "this randomized controlled trial aimed to investigate the effect of two different doses of caudal clonidine on emergence agitation and postoperative analgesia in children undergoing sevoflurane anesthesia. the study included a total of xx children, who were randomly assigned to receive either a high or low dose of caudal clonidine. the results showed that both doses of caudal clonidine significantly reduced emergence agitation compared to the control group, with the high dose showing a greater effect. additionally, both doses of caudal clonidine provided superior postoperative analgesia compared to the control group, with the high dose again showing a greater effect. the study highlights the potential benefits of caudal clonidine in improving postoperative outcomes in children undergoing sevoflurane anesthesia.", "pol_abstract": "the objective of this study was to determine the most effective dose of caudal clonidine, when added to 0.2% ropivacaine, for preventing sevoflurane-induced emergence agitation (ea) in children undergoing sub-umbilical surgeries. the study also aimed to achieve prolonged postoperative analgesia with minimal side effects. to accomplish this, sixty-one children between the ages of 1-7 with an american society of anesthesiologists physical status of i-ii were given standardized general anesthesia using inhaled sevoflurane and a caudal epidural block with 0.2% ropivacaine at a dosage of 1 ml/kg.", "mix_abstract": "the context and objectives are as follows: during the recovery period, sevoflurane, a commonly used inhaled anesthetic for children, has been linked to substantial emergence agitation.  this study was intended to compare two doses of caudal clonidine added to ropivacaine 0 to determine the most effective dosage for preventing emergence agitation (ea) caused by sevoflurane and to achieve a substantial extension of postoperative pain relief while minimizing adverse effects, a study was conducted using the following methods: a group of 61 children aged 1-7 years with american society of anaesthesiologists physical status i-ii received standardized general anesthesia with sevoflurane inhalation and caudal epidural block with 0.2% ropivacaine at a dosage of 1 ml/kg for sub-umbilical surgeries."}
{"title": "the cannabinoid receptor 1 associates with nmda receptors to produce glutamatergic_hypofunction : implications in psychosis and schizophrenia", "abstract": "the endocannabinoid system is widespread throughout the central nervous system and its type 1 receptor ( cb1 ) plays a crucial role in preventing the neurotoxicity caused by activation of glutamate n -methyl- d -aspartate receptors ( nmdars ) . indeed , it is the activity of nmdars themselves that provides the demands on the endogenous cannabinoids in order to control their calcium currents . therefore , a physiological role of this system is to maintain nmdar activity within safe limits , thereby protecting neural cells from excitotoxicity . thus , cannabinoids may be able to control nmdar overactivation-related neural dysfunctions ; however , the major obstacles to the therapeutic utilization of these compounds are their psychotropic effects and negative influence on cognitive", "gen_abstract": "the endocannabinoid system has been implicated in the pathophysiology of psychosis and schizophrenia, and the cannabinoid receptor 1 (cb1) is a key component of this system. evidence suggests that cb1 interacts with n-methyl-d-aspartate (nmda) receptors, which are also implicated in these disorders, to produce glutamatergic hypofunction, a key neurobiological feature of these conditions. this review explores the evidence for this interaction and its implications for the understanding and treatment of psychosis and schizophrenia. the potential of targeting cb1-nmda receptor interactions as a novel therapeutic strategy for these disorders is also discussed.", "pol_abstract": "the cb1 receptor, a crucial component of the endocannabinoid system present throughout the central nervous system, helps prevent neurotoxicity resulting from the activation of nmdars by glutamate. the endogenous cannabinoids are demanded by the activity of nmdars themselves to regulate their calcium currents and maintain safe levels of nmdar activity, thereby protecting neural cells from excitotoxicity. therefore, the physiological function of the endocannabinoid system is to control nmdar activity and prevent neural dysfunctions related to nmdar overactivation. while cannabinoids have the potential to treat such dysfunctions, their psychotropic effects and negative impact on cognitive function remain significant obstacles to their therapeutic use.", "mix_abstract": "the cb1 receptor of the endocannabinoid system is essential in safeguarding neural cells from neurotoxicity triggered by the activation of glutamate nmdars. the endocannabinoid system is widespread across the central nervous system and is responsible for regulating calcium currents to control nmdar activity. thus, the endocannabinoid system serves a critical physiological purpose of maintaining nmdar activity at safe levels, protecting neural cells from excitotoxicity.  thus , cannabinoids may be able to control nmdar overactivation-related neural dysfunctions ; however , the major obstacles to the therapeutic utilization of these compounds are their psychotropic effects and negative influence on cognitive"}
{"title": "statin use as a moderator of metformin effect on risk for prostate_cancer among type 2 diabetic patients", "abstract": "objective metformin and statins have shown promise for cancer prevention . this study assessed whether the effect of metformin on prostate_cancer ( pca ) incidence varied by statin use among type 2 diabetic patients . research design and methods the study cohort consisted of 5,042 type 2 diabetic male patients seen in the veteran administration health care system who were without prior cancer and were prescribed with metformin or sulfonylurea as the exclusive hypoglycemic medication between fiscal years 1999 and 2005 . cox proportional hazards analyses were conducted to assess the differential hazard ratio ( hr ) of pca due to metformin by statin use versus sulfonylurea use , where propensity scores of metformin and statin use were adjusted to account for imbalances in baseline covariates across medication", "gen_abstract": "this study aims to investigate the potential moderating effect of statin use on the association between metformin and the risk for prostate cancer among patients with type 2 diabetes. a systematic review and meta-analysis were conducted, utilizing data from multiple studies to determine the overall effect size of metformin on prostate cancer risk, as well as the potential moderating effect of statin use. the results suggest that statin use may moderate the association between metformin and prostate cancer risk, indicating a potential protective effect. these findings have important implications for the clinical management of type 2 diabetes and prostate cancer risk, highlighting the importance of considering statin use in addition to metformin therapy for optimal patient outcomes.", "pol_abstract": "the aim of this study was to investigate whether the use of metformin and statins could prevent prostate cancer in type 2 diabetic patients. the research involved analyzing a cohort of 5,042 male patients with type 2 diabetes who had not previously been diagnosed with cancer and had been prescribed either metformin or sulfonylurea as their only hypoglycemic medication between 1999 and 2005 within the veteran administration health care system. cox proportional hazards analyses were used to compare the incidence of prostate cancer between patients who used metformin and statins versus those who used metformin and sulfonylurea, while adjusting for baseline covariates through propensity score matching.", "mix_abstract": "the aim of this study was to evaluate the potential of metformin and statins in preventing cancer, specifically prostate cancer (pca), among male patients with type 2 diabetes. the study included a cohort of 5,042 male patients with type 2 diabetes, who had not been diagnosed with cancer before and were exclusively prescribed metformin or sulfonylurea as hypoglycemic medication between fiscal years 1999 and 2005 in the veteran administration health care system. the study investigated whether the incidence of pca was affected by statin use in this patient population.  cox proportional hazards analyses were conducted to assess the differential hazard ratio ( hr ) of pca due to metformin by statin use versus sulfonylurea use , where propensity scores of metformin and statin use were adjusted to account for imbalances in baseline covariates across medication"}
{"title": "selective detection of carbohydrates and their peptide conjugates by esi-ms using synthetic quaternary ammonium salt derivatives of phenylboronic_acids", "abstract": "we present new tags based on the derivatives of phenylboronic_acid and apply them for the selective detection of sugars and peptide-sugar conjugates in mass spectrometry . we investigated the binding of phenylboronic_acid and its quaternary_ammonium_salt ( qas ) derivatives to carbohydrates and peptide-derived amadori products by hr-ms and ms/ms experiments . the formation of complexes between sugar or sugar-peptide conjugates and synthetic tags was confirmed on the basis of the unique isotopic distribution resulting from the presence of boron atom . moreover , incorporation of a quaternary_ammonium_salt dramatically improved the efficiency of ionization in mass spectrometry . it was found that the formation of a complex with phenylboronic_acid stabilizes the sugar moiety in glycated peptides , resulting in simplification of the fragmentation pattern of peptide-derived amadori", "gen_abstract": "the selective detection of carbohydrates and their peptide conjugates is a crucial task in many fields of science, such as biochemistry and biomedicine. in recent years, electrospray ionization mass spectrometry (esi-ms) has emerged as a powerful tool for the analysis of these biomolecules. in this study, synthetic quaternary ammonium salt derivatives of phenylboronic acids were developed as selective probes for the detection of carbohydrates and their peptide conjugates by esi-ms. these probes were designed to specifically bind to the cis-diol groups present in carbohydrates and peptide conjugates, resulting in the formation of stable complexes that could be detected by esi-ms. the performance of these probes was evaluated using a variety of carbohydrates and peptide conjugates, and the results demonstrated their high selectivity and sensitivity for the targeted biomolecules. this study provides a new approach for the selective detection of carbohydrates and their peptide conjugates by esi-ms, which has important implications for the analysis of these biomolecules in various research fields.", "pol_abstract": "new tags derived from phenylboronic acid have been developed and utilized for the targeted detection of sugars and peptide-sugar conjugates in mass spectrometry. through hr-ms and ms/ms experiments, we examined the binding of phenylboronic acid and its quaternary ammonium salt derivatives (qas) to carbohydrates and peptide-derived amadori products. the presence of boron atom was confirmed by the unique isotopic distribution of the resulting complexes between the synthetic tags and the sugar or sugar-peptide conjugates. incorporating a quaternary ammonium salt significantly improved the efficiency of ionization in mass spectrometry. in addition, the formation of a complex with phenylboronic acid was found to stabilize the sugar moiety in glycated peptides, resulting in a simplified fragmentation pattern of peptide-derived amadori.", "mix_abstract": "here's a polished version of the text:\n\n\"we are pleased to introduce new tags derived from phenylboronic acid, which we have applied for the selective detection of sugars and peptide-sugar conjugates using mass spectrometry.\"  we investigated the binding of phenylboronic_acid and its quaternary_ammonium_salt ( qas ) derivatives to carbohydrates and peptide-derived amadori products by hr-ms and ms/ms experiments  \n\nconfirmation of complex formation between sugar or sugar-peptide conjugates and synthetic tags was achieved based on the distinctive isotopic distribution caused by the boron atom. additionally, the addition of a quaternary ammonium salt significantly enhanced ionization efficiency in mass spectrometry.  it was found that the formation of a complex with phenylboronic_acid stabilizes the sugar moiety in glycated peptides , resulting in simplification of the fragmentation pattern of peptide-derived amadori"}
{"title": "pancreatic_disease , panniculitis , polyarthrtitis_syndrome successfully treated with total pancreatectomy : case report and literature review", "abstract": "highlights \u2022 ppp ( pancreatic_disease , panniculitis , polyarthritis ) syndrome is a rare disease caused by pancreatitis or pancreatic cancer . \u2022 panniculitis and polyarthritis are the main characteristics of the syndrome . \u2022 a high mortality rate and chronic sequel are reported . \u2022 surgical and endoscopic treatment may improve the prognosis of this condition . introduction pancreatic_disease can be complicated by extrabdominal manifestations such as panniculitis and polyarthritis . the symptomatic triad comprising pancreatic_disease , panniculitis and polyarthritis is also known as ppp syndrome and is characterized by severe chronic sequels and high mortality rate . we describe a case of ppp syndrome successfully treated with spleen preserving total pancreatectomy ; in addition we performed a literature", "gen_abstract": "this case report and literature review describe the successful treatment of a patient with pancreatic disease, panniculitis, and polyarthritis syndrome through total pancreatectomy. the patient presented with severe abdominal pain, weight loss, and skin nodules, and was diagnosed with pancreatic disease and panniculitis. however, further examination revealed the presence of polyarthritis syndrome, which complicated the patient's condition. despite initial treatment with steroids and immunosuppressive therapy, the patient's symptoms persisted and ultimately required total pancreatectomy. the surgery resulted in complete resolution of the patient's symptoms and a significant improvement in their quality of life. the literature review discusses the epidemiology, pathophysiology, diagnosis, and management of pancreatic disease, panniculitis, and polyarthritis syndrome. the case report and literature review demonstrate the potential benefits of total pancreatectomy as a treatment option for these complex and challenging conditions.", "pol_abstract": "rewritten abstract:\n\nthe ppp syndrome is an uncommon ailment resulting from pancreatitis or pancreatic cancer, with panniculitis and polyarthritis being its primary characteristics. the condition is associated with chronic sequelae and a high mortality rate. the prognosis of the syndrome may be improved with surgical or endoscopic treatment. in this case report, we describe a successful treatment of ppp syndrome with spleen-preserving total pancreatectomy. additionally, we conducted a literature review.", "mix_abstract": "here is the rewritten abstract without changing the semantics:\n\nkey points: \n\u2022 ppp (pancreatic disease, panniculitis, polyarthritis) syndrome is a uncommon condition that is linked to pancreatitis or pancreatic cancer. \n\u2022 the key features of this syndrome are panniculitis and polyarthritis.  \u2022 a high mortality rate and chronic sequel are reported  the prognosis of this condition can be enhanced through surgical and endoscopic treatments. the occurrence of extrabdominal manifestations like panniculitis and polyarthritis can complicate pancreatic disease. the ppp syndrome, which is characterized by a symptomatic triad of pancreatic disease, panniculitis, and polyarthritis, can lead to severe chronic consequences and a high mortality rate.  we describe a case of ppp syndrome successfully treated with spleen preserving total pancreatectomy ; in addition we performed a literature"}
{"title": "reconstitution of the erg gene expression network reveals new biomarkers and therapeutic targets in erg positive prostate_tumors", "abstract": "background : despite a growing number of studies evaluating cancer of prostate ( cap ) specific gene alterations , oncogenic activation of the ets related gene ( erg ) by gene fusions remains the most validated cancer gene alteration in cap . prevalent gene fusions have been described between the erg gene and promoter upstream sequences of androgen-inducible genes , predominantly tmprss2 ( transmembrane protease serine 2 ) . despite the extensive evaluations of erg genomic rearrangements , fusion transcripts and the erg oncoprotein , the prognostic value of erg remains to be better understood . using gene expression dataset from matched prostate_tumor and normal epithelial cells from an 80 genechip experiment examining 40 tumors and their matching normal pairs in 40 patients with known erg status , we conducted a cancer signaling-focused functional analysis of prostatic carcinoma representing moderate and aggressive cancers stratified by erg", "gen_abstract": "the erg gene is commonly rearranged in prostate tumors, leading to overexpression of the erg protein, which is associated with aggressive disease and poor prognosis. in this study, we reconstituted the erg gene expression network to identify new biomarkers and therapeutic targets in erg-positive prostate tumors. using a combination of gene expression profiling and network analysis, we identified several novel genes and pathways that are specifically regulated by erg in prostate cancer cells. we also identified potential therapeutic targets that could be used to selectively target erg-positive tumors. our findings provide new insights into the molecular mechanisms of erg-driven prostate cancer and highlight the potential for developing personalized treatments for patients with erg-positive tumors.", "pol_abstract": "background: erg gene fusions resulting in oncogenic activation are the most extensively studied cancer gene alterations in prostate cancer (cap), despite the increasing number of studies evaluating specific gene alterations in cap. gene fusions between erg and promoter sequences of androgen-inducible genes, particularly tmprss2, are prevalent. however, the prognostic value of erg is not well-understood, despite extensive evaluations of erg genomic rearrangements, fusion transcripts, and oncoprotein. in this study, we conducted a functional analysis of prostate carcinoma using a gene expression dataset from 40 patients with known erg status, examining 40 tumors and their matching normal pairs. the dataset included moderate and aggressive cancers stratified by erg, and the analysis focused on cancer signaling.", "mix_abstract": "although numerous studies have explored gene alterations specific to prostate cancer (cap), the activation of the ets related gene (erg) through gene fusions remains the most confirmed cancer gene alteration in cap. erg gene fusions are frequently observed with promoter upstream sequences of androgen-inducible genes, particularly tmprss2 (transmembrane protease serine 2). despite extensive research on erg genomic rearrangements, fusion transcripts, and the erg oncoprotein, the prognostic significance of erg remains unclear and requires further investigation.  using gene expression dataset from matched prostate_tumor and normal epithelial cells from an 80 genechip experiment examining 40 tumors and their matching normal pairs in 40 patients with known erg status , we conducted a cancer signaling-focused functional analysis of prostatic carcinoma representing moderate and aggressive cancers stratified by erg"}
{"title": "artemisinin-based combinations versus amodiaquine plus sulphadoxine-pyrimethamine for the treatment of uncomplicated malaria in faladje , mali", "abstract": "background because of the emergence of chloroquine resistance in mali , artemether-lumefantrine ( al ) or artesunate-amodiaquine ( as+aq ) are recommended as first-line therapy for uncomplicated malaria , but have not been available in mali until recently because of high costs . methods from july 2005 to january 2006 , a randomized open-label trial of three oral antimalarial combinations , namely as+aq , artesunate plus sulphadoxine-pyrimethamine ( as+sp ) , and amodiaquine plus sulphadoxine-pyrimethamine ( aq+sp ) , was conducted in faladje , mali . parasite genotyping by polymerase chain reaction ( pcr ) was used to distinguish new from recrudescent plasmodium falciparum infections .", "gen_abstract": "this study aims to compare the efficacy of artemisinin-based combinations with amodiaquine plus sulphadoxine-pyrimethamine for treating uncomplicated malaria in faladje, mali. a randomized controlled trial was conducted among patients with malaria to assess the therapeutic efficacy of these two treatments. the primary outcome was the proportion of patients who remained parasite-free on day 28. secondary outcomes included the proportion of patients with fever clearance time, the incidence of adverse events, and the proportion of patients with gametocyte carriage. the results of this study will provide valuable information for clinicians and policymakers in mali and other sub-saharan african countries on the most effective and safe treatment for uncomplicated malaria.", "pol_abstract": "the prevalence of chloroquine resistance in mali has led to a recommendation of artemether-lumefantrine (al) or artesunate-amodiaquine (as+aq) as the first-line treatment for uncomplicated malaria. however, due to high costs, these treatments were not available in mali until recently. to address this, a randomized open-label trial was conducted from july 2005 to january 2006 in faladje, mali, which tested the efficacy of three oral antimalarial combinations: as+aq, artesunate plus sulphadoxine-pyrimethamine (as+sp), and amodiaquine plus sulphadoxine-pyrimethamine (aq+sp). polymerase chain reaction (pcr) was used to differentiate between new and recrudescent plasmodium falciparum infections.", "mix_abstract": "the emergence of chloroquine resistance in mali has resulted in the recommendation of artemether-lumefantrine (al) or artesunate-amodiaquine (as+aq) as the first-line therapy for uncomplicated malaria. however, due to high costs, these treatments were not available in mali until recently. to assess alternative treatment options, a randomized open-label trial was conducted in faladje, mali, between july 2005 and january 2006. the trial involved three oral antimalarial combinations: as+aq, artesunate plus sulphadoxine-pyrimethamine (as+sp), and amodiaquine plus sulphadoxine-pyrimethamine (aq+sp). polymerase chain reaction (pcr) was used to differentiate between new and recrudescent plasmodium falciparum infections by parasite genotyping."}
{"title": "mir-129 triggers autophagic flux by regulating a novel notch-1/ e2f7/beclin-1 axis to impair the viability of human malignant_glioma cells", "abstract": "abnormalities of autophagy have been implicated in an increasing number of human cancers , including glioma . to date , there is a wealth of evidence indicating that micrornas ( mirnas ) contribute significantly to autophagy in a variety of cancers . previous studies have suggested that mir-129 functioned as an important inhibitor of the cell cycle and could promote the apoptosis of many cancer cell lines in vitro . here , we reported that mir-129 acted as a potent inducer of autophagy . forced expression of mir-129 could induce autophagic flux by targetedly suppressing notch-1 in glioma cells . the autophagy induced by mir-129 could restrain the activity of mammalian target of rapamycin ( mtor ) and upregulate", "gen_abstract": "\n\nthe microrna-129 (mir-129) has been identified as a crucial regulator of autophagy in human malignant glioma cells. in this study, we explore the molecular mechanism underlying the effect of mir-129 on autophagy in these cells. our findings demonstrate that mir-129 triggers autophagic flux by targeting the notch-1/e2f7/beclin-1 axis. we show that mir-129 inhibits the expression of notch-1 and e2f7, which in turn leads to the upregulation of beclin-1, a key protein involved in the initiation of autophagy. the activation of autophagy by mir-129 results in impaired viability of human malignant glioma cells. these results suggest that mir-129 could be a potential therapeutic target for the treatment of glioblastoma and other related malignancies.", "pol_abstract": "autophagy abnormalities are increasingly being linked to human cancers, including glioma. there is substantial evidence indicating that micrornas (mirnas) significantly contribute to autophagy in various cancers. earlier research suggested that mir-129 inhibited the cell cycle and could induce apoptosis in many cancer cell lines in vitro. in this study, we found that mir-129 can also act as a powerful inducer of autophagy by suppressing notch-1 in glioma cells. the autophagy induced by mir-129 restrains mtor activity and upregulates... (the remainder of the abstract is truncated).", "mix_abstract": "the following is a polished version of the text:\n\nabnormalities in autophagy have been linked to an increasing number of human cancers, including glioma. to date, a plethora of evidence indicates that micrornas (mirnas) play a significant role in autophagy in various types of cancer. previous research has suggested that mir-129 serves as a critical inhibitor of the cell cycle and has the potential to induce apoptosis in many cancer cell lines in vitro.  here , we reported that mir-129 acted as a potent inducer of autophagy  the targeted suppression of notch-1 in glioma cells through forced expression of mir-129 can induce autophagic flux.  the autophagy induced by mir-129 could restrain the activity of mammalian target of rapamycin ( mtor ) and upregulate"}
{"title": "resveratrol suppresses the growth and enhances retinoic_acid sensitivity of anaplastic_thyroid_cancer cells", "abstract": "anaplastic_thyroid_cancer ( atc ) is a highly lethal undifferentiated malignancy without reliable therapies . retinoic_acid ( ra ) has been employed to promote redifferentiation of thyroid_cancers by increasing their i 131 uptake and radio-sensitivity , but its effect ( s ) on atcs has not yet been ascertained . likewise , resveratrol induces cancer redifferentiation but , also in this case , its effects on atcs remain unknown . these issues have been addresses in the current study using three human atc cell lines ( thj-11t , thj-16t , and thj-21t ) through multiple experimental approaches . the results reveal that ra exerts a small inhibitory effect on these cell lines .", "gen_abstract": "the abstract describes a study on the effects of resveratrol, a natural compound found in grapes and red wine, on the growth and sensitivity of anaplastic thyroid cancer cells to retinoic acid. the results indicate that resveratrol significantly suppresses the growth of anaplastic thyroid cancer cells and enhances their sensitivity to retinoic acid, a compound with anti-cancer properties. the study provides new insights into the potential therapeutic benefits of resveratrol for anaplastic thyroid cancer, which is a highly aggressive and difficult-to-treat cancer subtype. these findings may contribute to the development of novel treatment strategies for anaplastic thyroid cancer.", "pol_abstract": "the current study investigates the effects of retinoic_acid (ra) and resveratrol on anaplastic_thyroid_cancer (atc), a highly lethal malignancy without reliable therapies. ra has previously been used to promote redifferentiation of thyroid_cancers, but its impact on atcs is unknown. similarly, resveratrol induces cancer redifferentiation, but its effects on atcs are also unclear. to address these issues, the study uses multiple experimental approaches on three human atc cell lines (thj-11t, thj-16t, and thj-21t). the findings demonstrate that ra has a minor inhibitory effect on these cell lines.", "mix_abstract": "the malignancy known as anaplastic thyroid cancer (atc) is a fatal and undifferentiated type of cancer for which there are no reliable treatments. although retinoic acid (ra) has been used to promote redifferentiation of thyroid cancers by increasing their radio-sensitivity and i-131 uptake, it remains unclear whether it has any effect on atcs.  likewise , resveratrol induces cancer redifferentiation but , also in this case , its effects on atcs remain unknown  the current study tackled these concerns by employing various experimental methods on three human atc cell lines (thj-11t, thj-16t, and thj-21t). the findings indicate that ra has a minor inhibitory impact on these cell lines."}
{"title": "management of suspected acute_heart_failure dyspnea in the emergency_department : results from the french prospective multicenter defssica survey", "abstract": "background an appropriate diagnostic process is crucial for managing patients with acute_heart_failure ( ahf ) in emergency_department ( ed ) . our study aims to describe the characteristics and therapeutic management of patients admitted to the ed for dyspnea suspected to have ahf , their in-hospital pathway of care and their in-hospital outcome . methods consecutive patients admitted in 26 french ed for dyspnea suspected to be the consequence of ahf , prior to in hospital diagnostic test , were prospectively included at the time of their admission in the defssica survey . clinical characteristics at admission were recorded by the ed physicians .", "gen_abstract": "this study presents the results of the french prospective multicenter defssica survey, which focuses on the management of suspected acute heart failure dyspnea in the emergency department. the survey aims to evaluate the current practices of emergency physicians and to identify areas for improvement in the management of acute heart failure dyspnea. the study includes data from a large sample of patients across multiple centers in france. the findings provide insights into the diagnostic and therapeutic strategies used by emergency physicians in the management of acute heart failure dyspnea, and highlight the need for further research and standardized protocols to improve patient outcomes.", "pol_abstract": "in managing patients with acute heart failure (ahf) in the emergency department (ed), an appropriate diagnostic process is crucial. the objective of our study is to provide a description of the characteristics and therapeutic management of patients who were admitted to the ed with suspected ahf due to dyspnea, their in-hospital pathway of care, and their in-hospital outcome. for this purpose, we prospectively included consecutive patients admitted to 26 french eds with suspected ahf-related dyspnea prior to in-hospital diagnostic testing in the defssica survey. the ed physicians recorded the patients' clinical characteristics upon admission.", "mix_abstract": "the proper diagnostic procedure plays a vital role in treating patients with acute heart failure (ahf) in the emergency department (ed). our study seeks to provide a description of the features and therapeutic measures used to manage patients who are admitted to the ed with dyspnea and suspected ahf. additionally, we aim to outline the in-hospital care pathway and outcomes for these patients.  methods consecutive patients admitted in 26 french ed for dyspnea suspected to be the consequence of ahf , prior to in hospital diagnostic test , were prospectively included at the time of their admission in the defssica survey  the ed physicians recorded the clinical characteristics upon admission."}
{"title": "upper_extremity motor_impairments and microstructural changes in bulbospinal pathways in chronic hemiparetic stroke", "abstract": "following hemiparetic_stroke , precise , individuated control of single joints is often replaced by highly stereotyped patterns of multi-joint movement , or abnormal limb synergies , which can negatively impact functional use of the paretic arm . one hypothesis for the expression of these synergies is an increased dependence on bulbospinal pathways such as the rubrospinal ( rubst ) tract and especially the reticulospinal ( retst ) tracts , which co-activate multiple muscles of the shoulder , elbow , wrist , and fingers . despite indirect evidence supporting this hypothesis in humans poststroke , it still remains unclear whether it is correct .", "gen_abstract": "this study aimed to investigate the relationship between upper extremity motor impairments and microstructural changes in the bulbospinal pathways in individuals with chronic hemiparetic stroke. diffusion tensor imaging was used to assess microstructural changes in the corticospinal and reticulospinal tracts, and upper extremity motor function was assessed using standardized clinical scales. the results showed that microstructural changes in the reticulospinal tract were significantly associated with upper extremity motor impairments, suggesting that this pathway may play an important role in motor recovery after stroke. these findings have important implications for the development of targeted rehabilitation strategies for individuals with chronic hemiparetic stroke.", "pol_abstract": "after hemiparetic stroke, the ability to control individual joints with precision is often replaced by stereotypical patterns of multi-joint movements or abnormal limb synergies. these synergies can negatively affect the functional use of the affected arm. one possible explanation for the occurrence of these synergies is an increased reliance on bulbospinal pathways, including the rubrospinal (rubst) tract and, in particular, the reticulospinal (retst) tracts, which simultaneously activate multiple muscles of the shoulder, elbow, wrist, and fingers. although there is some indirect evidence to support this hypothesis in humans who have suffered a stroke, it remains unclear whether this hypothesis is accurate.", "mix_abstract": "after a hemiparetic stroke, the ability to control single joints with precision is often replaced by repetitive, predictable movements involving multiple joints, known as abnormal limb synergies. this can have a negative impact on the ability to use the weakened arm effectively. one theory for the occurrence of these synergies is an increased reliance on bulbospinal pathways, particularly the rubrospinal (rubst) and reticulospinal (retst) tracts, which activate multiple muscles in the shoulder, elbow, wrist, and fingers simultaneously. although there is some evidence to support this theory in human post-stroke patients, it is still uncertain whether it is accurate."}
{"title": "enrichment with anti-cytokeratin alone or combined with anti-epcam antibodies significantly increases the sensitivity for circulating_tumor_cell detection in metastatic breast_cancer patients", "abstract": "introduction circulating tumor cells ( ctcs ) are detectable in most cancer patients and they can meet an existing medical need to monitor cancer patients during a course of treatment and to help determine recurrent disease . ctcs are rarely found in the blood of cancer patients and enrichment is necessary for sensitive ctc detection . most ctc enrichment technologies are anti-epcam antibody based even though ctc identification criteria are cytokeratin positive ( ck + ) , cd45 negative ( cd45 - ) and 4'6-diamidino-2-phenylindole ( nuclear stain ) positive ( dapi + ) . however , some tumor cells express low or no epcam .", "gen_abstract": "this study aimed to evaluate the efficacy of enriching circulating tumor cells (ctcs) in metastatic breast cancer patients using anti-cytokeratin (ck) antibodies alone or in combination with anti-epithelial cell adhesion molecule (epcam) antibodies. the results showed that enriching ctcs using either anti-ck or anti-ck/epcam significantly improved the sensitivity of ctc detection compared to conventional methods. the study suggests that the use of these enrichment methods can aid in the early detection of metastatic breast cancer, allowing for earlier intervention and potentially improving patient outcomes.", "pol_abstract": "the presence of circulating tumor cells (ctcs) in cancer patients offers a valuable opportunity for monitoring during treatment and detecting recurrent disease. although ctcs are not commonly found in the blood of cancer patients, their sensitive detection requires enrichment methods. anti-epcam antibody-based technologies are commonly used for ctc enrichment, despite the fact that ctcs are identified based on being cytokeratin positive (ck+), cd45 negative (cd45-), and 4'6-diamidino-2-phenylindole (nuclear stain) positive (dapi+). however, some tumor cells exhibit low or no expression of epcam.", "mix_abstract": "circulating tumor cells (ctcs) are present in the bloodstream of the majority of cancer patients, and they have the potential to address the current medical demand for monitoring cancer patients throughout treatment and aiding in the identification of recurrent disease.  ctcs are rarely found in the blood of cancer patients and enrichment is necessary for sensitive ctc detection  the following is a polished version of the text:\n\nalthough the identification criteria for circulating tumor cells (ctcs) require them to be cytokeratin positive (ck+), cd45 negative (cd45-), and 4'6-diamidino-2-phenylindole positive (dapi+), most ctc enrichment technologies are still based on anti-epcam antibodies. this is problematic because some tumor cells express low or no epcam."}
{"title": "dietary heme induces gut dysbiosis , aggravates colitis , and potentiates the development of adenomas in mice", "abstract": "dietary heme can be used by colonic bacteria equipped with heme-uptake systems as a growth factor and thereby impact on the microbial community structure . the impact of heme on the gut microbiota composition may be particularly pertinent in chronic inflammation such as in inflammatory bowel disease ( ibd ) , where a strong association with gut dysbiosis has been consistently reported . in this study we investigated the influence of dietary heme on the gut microbiota and inferred metagenomic composition , and on chemically induced colitis and colitis-associated adenoma development in mice . using 16s rrna gene sequencing , we found that mice fed a diet supplemented with heme significantly altered their microbiota composition , characterized by a decrease in \u03b1-diversity , a reduction of firmicutes and an increase of proteobacteria , particularly", "gen_abstract": "this study investigates the impact of dietary heme on the gut microbiome, inflammation, and the development of adenomas in mice. results show that dietary heme induces gut dysbiosis, aggravates colitis, and potentiates the development of adenomas, suggesting that heme consumption may have adverse effects on gut health and increase the risk of colon cancer. these findings provide insights into the potential risks associated with high heme consumption and may have implications for the development of dietary guidelines for the prevention of colon cancer.", "pol_abstract": "this study examined the effects of dietary heme on the gut microbiota and inferred metagenomic composition, as well as on the development of chemically induced colitis and colitis-associated adenoma in mice. we found that colonic bacteria with heme-uptake systems can use heme as a growth factor, potentially impacting the microbial community structure. this impact could be particularly relevant in chronic inflammation, such as inflammatory bowel disease, where gut dysbiosis is frequently observed. our results, obtained through 16s rrna gene sequencing, indicate that a diet supplemented with heme led to significant changes in the microbiota composition of mice, characterized by a decrease in \u03b1-diversity, a reduction of firmicutes and an increase of proteobacteria, particularly.", "mix_abstract": "here's the polished text:\n\ndietary heme can serve as a growth factor for colonic bacteria that possess heme-uptake systems, thereby affecting the structure of the microbial community. the impact of heme on the composition of the gut microbiota may be especially relevant in cases of chronic inflammation, such as in inflammatory bowel disease (ibd), where a strong association with gut dysbiosis has been consistently observed. in this study, we investigated the influence of dietary heme on the gut microbiota and inferred metagenomic composition, as well as on chemically induced colitis and the development of colitis-associated adenomas in mice.  using 16s rrna gene sequencing , we found that mice fed a diet supplemented with heme significantly altered their microbiota composition , characterized by a decrease in \u03b1-diversity , a reduction of firmicutes and an increase of proteobacteria , particularly"}
{"title": "fibroblast_growth_factor_23 is associated with proteinuria and smoking in chronic_kidney_disease : an analysis of the masterplan cohort", "abstract": "background fibroblast_growth_factor_23 ( fgf23 ) has emerged as a risk factor for cardiovascular disease and mortality throughout all stages of chronic_kidney_disease ( ckd ) , independent from established risk factors and markers of mineral homeostasis . the relation of fgf23 with other renal and non-renal cardiovascular risk factors is not well established . methods using stored samples , plasma fgf23 was determined in 604 patients with moderate to severe kidney_disease that participated in the masterplan study ( isrctn73187232 ) . the association of fgf23 with demographic and clinical parameters was evaluated using multivariable regression models . results mean age in the study population was 60 years and egfr was 37 ( \u00b1 14 ) ml/min/1.73 m 2 .", "gen_abstract": "this study aimed to investigate the association between fibroblast growth factor 23 (fgf23), proteinuria, and smoking in individuals with chronic kidney disease (ckd). the analysis utilized data from the masterplan cohort and included 921 participants with ckd. the results showed that higher levels of fgf23 were significantly associated with an increased risk of proteinuria in individuals with ckd. additionally, smoking was found to be a significant predictor of fgf23 levels in this population. the findings of this study suggest that fgf23 may play a role in the development of proteinuria in ckd, and smoking may contribute to this pathway. this study highlights the importance of monitoring fgf23 levels in individuals with ckd, particularly those who smoke, to prevent the progression of kidney disease.", "pol_abstract": "the background of this study is that fibroblast growth factor 23 (fgf23) has been identified as a risk factor for cardiovascular disease and mortality in all stages of chronic kidney disease (ckd), independent of established risk factors and markers of mineral homeostasis. however, it is not clear how fgf23 is related to other cardiovascular risk factors, both renal and non-renal. \n\nto investigate this, the researchers analyzed stored samples from 604 patients with moderate to severe kidney disease who participated in the masterplan study (isrctn73187232). they measured plasma fgf23 levels and used multivariable regression models to evaluate the association between fgf23 and demographic and clinical parameters. \n\nthe study population had a mean age of 60 years and an estimated glomerular filtration rate (egfr) of 37 (\u00b114) ml/min/1.73 m2.", "mix_abstract": "background: fibroblast growth factor 23 (fgf23) has been identified as a risk factor for cardiovascular disease and mortality at all stages of chronic kidney disease (ckd). this risk is independent of established risk factors and markers of mineral homeostasis.  the relation of fgf23 with other renal and non-renal cardiovascular risk factors is not well established  here's the polished version:\n\nmethods:\nplasma fgf23 was determined in 604 patients with moderate to severe kidney disease who participated in the masterplan study (isrctn73187232) using stored samples. the association of fgf23 with demographic and clinical parameters was evaluated using multivariable regression models.\n\nresults:\nthe mean age in the study population was 60 years, and the estimated glomerular filtration rate (egfr) was 37 (\u00b114) ml/min/1.73 m\u00b2."}
{"title": "subanesthetic ketamine infusions for the treatment of children and adolescents with chronic_pain : a longitudinal study", "abstract": "background chronic_pain is common in children and adolescents and is often associated with severe functional disability and mood disorders . the pharmacological treatment of chronic_pain in children and adolescents can be challenging , ineffective , and is mostly based on expert opinions and consensus . ketamine , an n-methyl-d-aspartate receptor antagonist , has been used as an adjuvant for treatment of adult chronic_pain and has been shown , in some instances , to improve pain and decrease opioid-requirement . we examined the effects of subanesthetic ketamine infusions on pain intensity and opioid use in children and adolescents with chronic_pain syndromes treated in an outpatient setting .", "gen_abstract": "this longitudinal study aims to evaluate the effectiveness of subanesthetic ketamine infusions for treating chronic pain in children and adolescents. the study examines the safety and tolerability of ketamine infusions and evaluates their impact on pain, functional status, and quality of life over time. the results of this study will provide valuable information on the use of ketamine infusions as a potential treatment option for chronic pain in pediatric populations.", "pol_abstract": "chronic pain is a prevalent issue among children and adolescents, often leading to significant functional disability and mood disorders. however, treating chronic pain in this population can be challenging and ineffective, with expert opinions and consensus forming the basis for pharmacological interventions. while ketamine, an n-methyl-d-aspartate receptor antagonist, has been used as an adjuvant in the treatment of chronic pain in adults, with evidence suggesting a reduction in pain intensity and opioid use, its effects on children and adolescents in an outpatient setting have not been extensively studied. therefore, we aimed to investigate the impact of subanesthetic ketamine infusions on pain intensity and opioid use in children and adolescents with chronic pain syndromes, treated as outpatients.", "mix_abstract": "children and adolescents frequently suffer from chronic pain, which can lead to significant functional impairment and mood disturbances. unfortunately, pharmacological interventions for this condition can be difficult to manage and may not always produce satisfactory results, often relying on expert opinions and consensus. ketamine, an n-methyl-d-aspartate receptor antagonist, has been utilized as a supplementary treatment for chronic pain in adults and has shown some promise in reducing pain and minimizing opioid usage.  we examined the effects of subanesthetic ketamine infusions on pain intensity and opioid use in children and adolescents with chronic_pain syndromes treated in an outpatient setting"}
{"title": "sex-differential genetic effect of phosphodiesterase_4d ( pde4d ) on carotid_atherosclerosis", "abstract": "background the phosphodiesterase_4d ( pde4d ) gene was reported as a susceptibility gene to stroke . the genetic effect might be attributed to its role in modulating the atherogenic process in the carotid arteries . using carotid intima-media thickness ( imt ) and plaque index as phenotypes , the present study sought to determine the influence of this gene on subclinical atherosclerosis . methods carotid ultrasonography was performed on 1013 stroke-free subjects who participated in the health screening programs ( age 52.6 \u00b1 12.2 ; 47.6 % men ) . genotype distribution was compared among the high-risk ( plaque index \u2265 4 ) , low-risk ( index = 1-3 ) , and reference ( index = 0 ) groups .", "gen_abstract": "this study investigates the sex-specific genetic effects of the phosphodiesterase 4d (pde4d) gene on carotid atherosclerosis, a common vascular disease. using a sample of individuals with carotid atherosclerosis and controls, the study examines the association between pde4d gene variants and disease risk, considering the potential sex differences in the genetic effects. the results suggest that the effects of pde4d genetic variants on carotid atherosclerosis are sex-specific, with significant differences between males and females. these findings shed light on the role of genetic factors in the development of carotid atherosclerosis and highlight the importance of considering sex differences in genetic studies of vascular diseases.", "pol_abstract": "the pde4d gene has been identified as a susceptibility gene for stroke, possibly due to its involvement in regulating the atherogenic process in the carotid arteries. this study aimed to investigate the influence of the pde4d gene on subclinical atherosclerosis, using carotid intima-media thickness (imt) and plaque index as indicators. a total of 1013 stroke-free individuals (47.6% men, mean age 52.6 \u00b1 12.2) participated in carotid ultrasonography as part of a health screening program. the study compared the genotype distribution among individuals categorized as high-risk (plaque index \u2265 4), low-risk (index = 1-3), and reference (index = 0) groups.", "mix_abstract": "the pde4d gene has been identified as a susceptibility gene for stroke in previous studies.  the genetic effect might be attributed to its role in modulating the atherogenic process in the carotid arteries  \n\nthe aim of this study was to investigate the effect of a specific gene on subclinical atherosclerosis using carotid intima-media thickness (imt) and plaque index as indicators. a total of 1013 stroke-free individuals (47.6% men, age 52.6 \u00b1 12.2) who participated in health screening programs underwent carotid ultrasonography. the study compared the genotype distribution among three groups based on their plaque index: high-risk (plaque index \u2265 4), low-risk (index = 1-3), and reference (index = 0)."}
{"title": "effect of serum leptin on weight_gain induced by olanzapine in female patients with schizophrenia", "abstract": "background olanzapine ( olz ) treatment is associated with a high risk of weight_gain , and may cause abnormalities in glycolipid metabolism . therefore , the underlying mechanism of olz-related weight_gain is needed to clarify but not yet been adequately determined . in recent years , adipocytokines such as leptin , adiponectin , and tumor necrosis factor ( tnf ) -\u03b1 , which play important roles in energy homeostasis , have been suggested as biomarkers of weight_gain . here , we determined if baseline plasma concentrations of leptin , adiponectin , and tnf-\u03b1 predict weight_gain following olz treatment . methods we recruited 31 schizophrenia outpatients ( 12 men and 19 women , 28.8 \u00b1 10.2 years old ) that were unmedicated or on another antipsychotic monotherapy", "gen_abstract": "this study aimed to investigate the potential impact of serum leptin levels on weight gain induced by olanzapine in female patients with schizophrenia. a total of 50 female patients with schizophrenia who were prescribed olanzapine were included in the study. the patients' body weight and serum leptin levels were measured before and after olanzapine treatment. the results showed a significant increase in body weight after olanzapine treatment, with a corresponding increase in serum leptin levels. additionally, there was a positive correlation between the changes in body weight and serum leptin levels. these findings suggest that serum leptin levels may play a role in the weight gain induced by olanzapine in female patients with schizophrenia, and further research is needed to explore this relationship in more detail.", "pol_abstract": "the use of olanzapine (olz) as a treatment is linked to a heightened risk of weight gain and potential abnormalities in glycolipid metabolism. the mechanism behind olz-induced weight gain requires further clarification, and recent studies have pointed to adipocytokines, including leptin, adiponectin, and tumor necrosis factor (tnf)-\u03b1, as potential biomarkers for weight gain. in this study, we examined whether plasma concentrations of leptin, adiponectin, and tnf-\u03b1 prior to olz treatment can predict weight gain. a total of 31 schizophrenia outpatients (12 men and 19 women, aged 28.8 \u00b1 10.2 years) who were either unmedicated or on another antipsychotic monotherapy were recruited for this study.", "mix_abstract": "the use of olanzapine (olz) has been linked to a significant risk of weight gain and potential disruptions to glycolipid metabolism. thus, it is crucial to uncover the mechanism behind olz-induced weight gain, which has yet to be fully determined.  in recent years , adipocytokines such as leptin , adiponectin , and tumor necrosis factor ( tnf ) -\u03b1 , which play important roles in energy homeostasis , have been suggested as biomarkers of weight_gain  in this study, we aimed to investigate whether the initial levels of leptin, adiponectin, and tnf-\u03b1 in plasma could serve as predictors of weight gain after olz treatment. the study involved 31 outpatients with schizophrenia (12 males and 19 females), with an average age of 28.8\u00b110. 2 years old ) that were unmedicated or on another antipsychotic monotherapy"}
{"title": "plga biodegradable nanoparticles containing perphenazine or chlorpromazine_hydrochloride : effect of formulation and release", "abstract": "in our study , poly ( dl -lactide-co-glycolide ) ( plga ) nanoparticles loaded with perphenazine ( pph ) and chlorpromazine_hydrochloride ( cpz-hcl ) were formulated by emulsion solvent evaporation technique . the effect of various processing variables , including plga concentration , theoretical drug loading , poly ( vinyl alcohol ) ( pva ) concentration and the power of sonication were assessed systematically to obtain higher encapsulation efficiency and to minimize the nanoparticles size . by the optimization formulation process , the nanoparticles were obtained in submicron size from 325.5 \u00b1 32.4 to 374.3 \u00b1 10.1 nm for nanoparticles loaded with pph and cpz-hcl , respectively .", "gen_abstract": "this study investigates the effect of formulation and release properties of plga (poly(lactic-co-glycolic acid)) biodegradable nanoparticles containing perphenazine or chlorpromazine hydrochloride. the aim is to assess the potential of these nanoparticles for the sustained release of these drugs. the study involves the preparation of nanoparticles with different formulations and characterizations of their physicochemical properties. the release behavior of the drugs from the nanoparticles is also investigated using in vitro release studies. the results suggest that the formulation of the nanoparticles and the drug loading affect the release behavior of the drugs. the findings of this study have implications for the development of plga nanoparticles for drug delivery applications.", "pol_abstract": "we prepared poly(dl-lactide-co-glycolide) (plga) nanoparticles containing perphenazine (pph) and chlorpromazine hydrochloride (cpz-hcl) using the emulsion solvent evaporation method. we systematically evaluated the impact of several processing variables, including plga concentration, theoretical drug loading, poly(vinyl alcohol) (pva) concentration, and sonication power, to improve encapsulation efficiency and reduce nanoparticle size. by optimizing the formulation process, we achieved submicron-sized nanoparticles ranging from 325.5 \u00b1 32.4 to 374.3 \u00b1 10.1 nm for pph- and cpz-hcl-loaded nanoparticles, respectively.", "mix_abstract": "our study involved formulating nanoparticles loaded with perphenazine (pph) and chlorpromazine hydrochloride (cpz-hcl) using poly(dl-lactide-co-glycolide) (plga) through the emulsion solvent evaporation technique. we systematically evaluated different processing variables such as plga concentration, theoretical drug loading, poly(vinyl alcohol) (pva) concentration, and sonication power to achieve higher encapsulation efficiency and minimize the nanoparticle size. through the optimization formulation process, we successfully obtained nanoparticles with submicron sizes ranging from 325.5 \u00b1 32.4 to 374. 3 \u00b1 10 nanoparticles loaded with pph and cpz-hcl have a size of 1 nm each."}
{"title": "caffeic_acid_phenethyl_amide ameliorates ischemia/reperfusion injury and cardiac_dysfunction in streptozotocin-induced diabetic rats", "abstract": "background caffeic_acid phenethyl ester ( cape ) has been shown to protect the heart against ischemia/reperfusion ( i/r ) injury by various mechanisms including its antioxidant effect . in this study , we evaluated the protective effects of a cape analog with more structural stability in plasma , caffeic_acid_phenethyl_amide ( capa ) , on i/r injury in streptozotocin ( stz ) -induced type 1 diabetic rats . methods type 1 diabetes mellitus was induced in sprague\u2013dawley rats by a single intravenous injection of 60 mg/kg stz . to produce the i/r injury , the left anterior descending coronary artery was occluded for 45 minutes , followed by 2 hours of reperfusion .", "gen_abstract": "the aim of this study was to investigate the potential therapeutic effects of caffeic acid phenethyl amide (capa) in mitigating cardiac dysfunction and ischemia/reperfusion injury in streptozotocin-induced diabetic rats. the results showed that capa treatment significantly improved cardiac function and reduced myocardial infarct size in diabetic rats subjected to ischemia/reperfusion injury. capa treatment also attenuated oxidative stress and inflammation in the heart, which are known to contribute to the pathogenesis of diabetic cardiomyopathy. these findings suggest that capa has a cardioprotective effect in diabetic rats and may be a promising therapeutic agent for the treatment of diabetic cardiomyopathy.", "pol_abstract": "in this study, the protective effects of caffeic_acid_phenethyl_amide (capa), a more structurally stable analog of cape, were evaluated on ischemia/reperfusion (i/r) injury in streptozotocin-induced type 1 diabetic rats. previous research has shown that cape can protect the heart against i/r injury through its antioxidant properties. to induce type 1 diabetes mellitus, rats were given a single intravenous injection of 60 mg/kg stz, and i/r injury was produced by occluding the left anterior descending coronary artery for 45 minutes, followed by 2 hours of reperfusion.", "mix_abstract": "the study aimed to assess the effectiveness of caffeic acid phenethyl amide (capa), a more structurally stable analog of cape, in protecting the hearts of streptozotocin (stz)-induced type 1 diabetic rats against ischemia/reperfusion (i/r) injury. previous research has demonstrated that cape provides protection against i/r injury through various mechanisms, including its antioxidant properties.  methods type 1 diabetes mellitus was induced in sprague\u2013dawley rats by a single intravenous injection of 60 mg/kg stz  \n\nthe left anterior descending coronary artery was occluded for 45 minutes to induce i/r injury, which was followed by a 2-hour reperfusion period."}
{"title": "cancer burden among hiv-positive_persons in nigeria : preliminary findings from the nigerian aids-cancer match study", "abstract": "background although nigeria has a large hiv epidemic , the impact of hiv on cancer in nigerians is unknown . methods we conducted a registry linkage study using a probabilistic matching algorithm among a cohort of hiv positive persons registered at health facilities where the institute of human virology nigeria ( ihvn ) provides hiv prevention and treatment services . their data was linked to data from 2009 to 2012 in the abuja cancer registry . match compatible files with first name , last name , sex , date of birth and unique hiv cohort identification numbers were provided by each registry and used for the linkage analysis .", "gen_abstract": "the co-occurrence of hiv and cancer is a growing concern, particularly in low- and middle-income countries like nigeria. the nigerian aids-cancer match study aims to assess the burden of cancer among hiv-positive individuals in nigeria. this abstract presents preliminary findings from the study, highlighting the prevalence and types of cancer among hiv-positive individuals in nigeria. the study found a high burden of cancer among people living with hiv, with kaposi sarcoma, non-hodgkin lymphoma, and cervical cancer being the most common types. the findings underscore the need for increased efforts to integrate cancer screening and treatment into hiv care in nigeria and other similar settings.", "pol_abstract": "despite the significant hiv epidemic in nigeria, the effect of hiv on cancer in the nigerian population remains unclear. to address this knowledge gap, we utilized a probabilistic matching algorithm to conduct a registry linkage study of a cohort of individuals who were hiv-positive and registered at health facilities where the institute of human virology nigeria (ihvn) provides hiv prevention and treatment services. by linking their data to information from the abuja cancer registry between 2009 and 2012, we were able to conduct a comprehensive linkage analysis using compatible files that included first name, last name, sex, date of birth, and unique hiv cohort identification numbers from each registry.", "mix_abstract": "despite the fact that nigeria has a significant hiv epidemic, the effect of hiv on cancer among nigerians remains uncertain.  methods we conducted a registry linkage study using a probabilistic matching algorithm among a cohort of hiv positive persons registered at health facilities where the institute of human virology nigeria ( ihvn ) provides hiv prevention and treatment services  the information they provided was combined with data from the abuja cancer registry between 2009 and 2012. both registries shared files containing first names, last names, genders, dates of birth, and unique identification numbers for hiv cohorts to enable the linkage analysis."}
{"title": "oxidative stress measurement and prediction of epileptic seizure in children and adults with severe motor and intellectual_disabilities", "abstract": "background the medical care of severe motor and intellectual_disabilities ( smid ) depends on the empirical medical care . epileptic_seizure specific to smid is difficult to suppress using anti-epileptic drugs , and its tendency to persist for long periods poses an issue . the present study was undertaken to evaluate the relationship between epileptic_seizure in cases with smid and oxidative stress in the living body by examining endogenous antioxidants , the degree of oxidation ( reactive oxygen metabolites ( d-roms ) ) , and the biological antioxidant potential ( bap ) as indicators . methods target patients were 43 smid epilepsy patients .", "gen_abstract": "this study focuses on the measurement and prediction of epileptic seizures in children and adults with severe motor and intellectual disabilities through the analysis of oxidative stress markers. oxidative stress is a well-known factor that contributes to the development of epilepsy and the severity of seizures. the study involves the analysis of oxidative stress markers, including malondialdehyde, superoxide dismutase, and glutathione peroxidase, in the blood and cerebrospinal fluid of the participants. the study aims to identify the relationship between oxidative stress levels and the occurrence of epileptic seizures. the findings of this study could provide valuable insights into the mechanisms underlying epilepsy in individuals with severe motor and intellectual disabilities, and potentially lead to the development of new strategies for predicting and managing epileptic seizures in this population.", "pol_abstract": "context: this is an abstract describing a study that aims to evaluate the relationship between epileptic seizures in individuals with severe motor and intellectual disabilities (smid) and oxidative stress in the body.\n\nabstract: the empirical medical care for individuals with smid is crucial for their well-being, and suppressing epileptic seizures, specific to this group, remains a challenge despite the use of anti-epileptic drugs. the persistence of seizures for long periods is a concern. this study aimed to investigate the association between epileptic seizures and oxidative stress in individuals with smid by analyzing endogenous antioxidants, reactive oxygen metabolites (d-roms), and biological antioxidant potential (bap) as indicators. the target group comprised of 43 smid epilepsy patients.", "mix_abstract": "background the medical care of severe motor and intellectual_disabilities ( smid ) depends on the empirical medical care  \n\nanti-epileptic drugs are not very effective in suppressing smid-specific seizures, which can last for extended periods. to address this issue, the current study aimed to explore the connection between epilepsy in smid cases and oxidative stress in the body. this was achieved by assessing endogenous antioxidants, reactive oxygen metabolites (d-roms) as an indicator of oxidation degree, and biological antioxidant potential (bap). the study involved 43 epilepsy patients with smid as the target population."}
{"title": "association of serum leptin and adiponectin with anthropomorphic indices of obesity , blood_lipids and insulin_resistance in a sub-saharan african population", "abstract": "background there is little data on the metabolic effects of adipokines in sub-saharan african populations . this study aimed to explore the potential relationship of leptin and adiponectin , with obesity , plasma lipids and insulin_resistance in a cameroonian population . methods we enrolled 167 men and 309 women aged \u226518 years from the general population in cameroon . data were collected on waist circumference ( wc ) , body mass index ( bmi ) , waist-to-hip ratio ( whr ) , body fat ( bf % ) , fasting blood glucose , plasma lipids , adiponectin , leptin , insulin and homeostasis model for assessment of insulin_resistance ( homa-ir ) .", "gen_abstract": "this study aimed to investigate the association between serum levels of leptin and adiponectin, two adipokines involved in the regulation of adiposity, and various markers of obesity, lipid metabolism, and insulin resistance in a sub-saharan african population. a cross-sectional analysis was conducted on a sample of participants who underwent anthropometric and biochemical assessments. the results showed a positive correlation between serum leptin and various measures of adiposity, such as body mass index and waist circumference. conversely, serum adiponectin was negatively associated with adiposity and had a positive correlation with high-density lipoprotein cholesterol. furthermore, both adipokines were found to be associated with insulin resistance markers. these findings provide new insights into the role of leptin and adiponectin in the development of obesity-related complications in sub-saharan african populations and may have implications for the prevention and management of these conditions.", "pol_abstract": "the scarcity of data regarding the metabolic impact of adipokines among sub-saharan african populations is a pressing concern. this investigation sought to examine the plausible correlation between leptin and adiponectin with obesity, plasma lipids, and insulin resistance within a population from cameroon. participants, including 167 men and 309 women aged 18 years or older from the general population in cameroon, were enrolled in this study. a variety of measurements were taken, such as waist circumference (wc), body mass index (bmi), waist-to-hip ratio (whr), body fat (bf%), fasting blood glucose, plasma lipids, adiponectin, leptin, insulin, and homeostasis model for assessment of insulin resistance (homa-ir).", "mix_abstract": "background: limited information is available regarding the metabolic impact of adipokines in populations of sub-saharan african origin.  this study aimed to explore the potential relationship of leptin and adiponectin , with obesity , plasma lipids and insulin_resistance in a cameroonian population  in this study, we recruited a total of 476 participants, consisting of 167 male and 309 female individuals who were at least 18 years old and from the general population in cameroon. we collected various data measurements, including waist circumference (wc), body mass index (bmi), waist-to-hip ratio (whr), body fat percentage (bf%), fasting blood glucose, plasma lipids, adiponectin, leptin, insulin, and homeostasis model assessment for insulin resistance (homa-ir)."}
{"title": "determination of the relationship of serum hyaluronic acid levels to the degree of liver_fibrosis in biopsies of patients with chronic_viral_hepatitis_b and c", "abstract": "background and aims determining the stage of liver_fibrosis and the grade of necroinflammation is important in predicting the prognosis and treatment response of patients with chronic_viral_hepatitis . liver biopsy is associated with several technical problems and complications ; therefore , its repetitive performance as a procedure in evaluating treatment response and in following up patients is not recommended . this study was performed to determine the correlation of serum hyaluronic acid ( ha ) levels with the stage and grade of histopathologic liver changes in patients with chronic hepatitis_b and c. methods this analytical cross-sectional study was performed on 69 patients with chronic hepatitis_b or c in mashhad , iran , who were referred to our clinic and underwent liver biopsy and blood sampling simultaneously in", "gen_abstract": "this study aims to investigate the relationship between serum hyaluronic acid (ha) levels and the degree of liver fibrosis in patients with chronic viral hepatitis b and c. liver fibrosis is a common complication of chronic viral hepatitis that can lead to cirrhosis and liver failure. the gold standard for assessing liver fibrosis is liver biopsy, but it is an invasive and potentially risky procedure. serum ha has been suggested as a non-invasive marker of liver fibrosis, but its relationship to the degree of fibrosis in patients with chronic viral hepatitis b and c has not been fully established. in this study, serum ha levels will be measured in patients with chronic viral hepatitis b and c, and liver biopsies will be performed to assess the degree of liver fibrosis. the results of this study will help to determine the usefulness of serum ha as a non-invasive marker of liver fibrosis in patients with chronic viral hepatitis b and c.", "pol_abstract": "aims: predicting the prognosis and treatment response of patients with chronic viral hepatitis requires determining the stage of liver fibrosis and grade of necroinflammation. however, liver biopsy, the standard procedure for evaluation, has technical problems and complications, making it unsuitable for repetitive performance. this study aimed to establish the correlation between serum hyaluronic acid (ha) levels and histopathologic liver changes in patients with chronic hepatitis b and c, as an alternative method.\n\nmethods: this cross-sectional study analyzed 69 patients with chronic hepatitis b or c in mashhad, iran. these patients underwent both liver biopsy and blood sampling simultaneously. \n\nnote: i only made minor changes to the wording for clarity and readability while maintaining the original meaning and structure of the abstract.", "mix_abstract": "the background and aim of this study is to find an alternative method to determine the stage of liver fibrosis and the grade of necroinflammation in patients with chronic viral hepatitis. this information is crucial in predicting patient prognosis and treatment response. liver biopsy is a procedure that is often associated with technical difficulties and complications, making it unsuitable for repetitive use in evaluating treatment response and following up patients. the study aimed to investigate whether there is a correlation between serum hyaluronic acid (ha) levels and the histopathologic liver changes in patients with chronic hepatitis b and c.  methods this analytical cross-sectional study was performed on 69 patients with chronic hepatitis_b or c in mashhad , iran , who were referred to our clinic and underwent liver biopsy and blood sampling simultaneously in"}
{"title": "morphologically and immunohistochemically undifferentiated gastric_neoplasia in a patient with multiple metastatic malignant_melanomas : a case report", "abstract": "introduction malignant_melanoma is a neoplasia which frequently involves the gastrointestinal tract ( git ) . git metastases are difficult to diagnose because they often recur many years after treatment of the primary cutaneous lesion and also manifest clinically at an advanced stage of the neoplasia . furthermore , git metastases can appear in various morphological forms , and therefore immunohistochemistry is often useful in distinguishing between a malignant_melanoma and other malignancies . case presentation we report the case of a 60-year-old man with a multiple metastatic melanoma who underwent an upper endoscopy to clarify the possible involvement of the gastric wall with a mass localized in the upper abdomen involving the pancreas and various lymph nodes , which was previously described with computed", "gen_abstract": "this case report describes a patient with multiple metastatic malignant melanomas who was found to have morphologically and immunohistochemically undifferentiated gastric neoplasia. the patient's clinical presentation, diagnostic workup, and treatment are discussed, and the challenges associated with managing a patient with multiple primary malignancies are highlighted. this case underscores the importance of considering the possibility of concurrent neoplasms in patients with a history of cancer, as well as the value of immunohistochemical analysis in guiding the diagnosis and treatment of gastric neoplasia.", "pol_abstract": "malignant melanoma frequently involves the gastrointestinal tract (git), and its metastases can be difficult to diagnose. this is due to their tendency to recur years after primary cutaneous lesion treatment and to present clinically at an advanced stage of the neoplasia. additionally, git metastases can appear in various morphological forms, making immunohistochemistry a valuable tool for distinguishing malignant melanoma from other malignancies. in this case report, we describe a 60-year-old man with multiple metastatic melanoma who received an upper endoscopy to assess possible involvement of the gastric wall. a mass in the upper abdomen, involving the pancreas and various lymph nodes, had previously been identified by computed imaging.", "mix_abstract": "malignant melanoma is a type of cancer that commonly affects the gastrointestinal tract (git). diagnosing git metastases can be challenging as they may reoccur years after treating the initial skin lesion and are typically detected at an advanced stage of the cancer. additionally, git metastases can take on various forms, making immunohistochemistry a valuable tool for distinguishing between malignant melanoma and other malignancies.  case presentation we report the case of a 60-year-old man with a multiple metastatic melanoma who underwent an upper endoscopy to clarify the possible involvement of the gastric wall with a mass localized in the upper abdomen involving the pancreas and various lymph nodes , which was previously described with computed"}
{"title": "carnosine inhibits carbonic anhydrase ix-mediated extracellular acidosis and suppresses growth of hela_tumor xenografts", "abstract": "background carbonic anhydrase ix ( ca ix ) is a transmembrane enzyme that is present in many types of solid tumors . expression of ca ix is driven predominantly by the hypoxia-inducible factor ( hif ) pathway and helps to maintain intracellular ph homeostasis under hypoxic conditions , resulting in acidification of the tumor microenvironment . carnosine ( \u03b2-alanyl-l-histidine ) is an anti-tumorigenic agent that inhibits the proliferation of cancer cells . in this study , we investigated the role of ca ix in carnosine-mediated antitumor activity and whether the underlying mechanism involves transcriptional and translational modulation of hif-1\u03b1 and ca ix and/or altered ca ix function .", "gen_abstract": "\n\nthe abstract is as follows:\n\ncarnosine is a dipeptide that has been reported to exhibit anticancer properties, although its underlying mechanisms of action are not fully understood. here, we investigate the effects of carnosine on extracellular acidosis and tumor growth in hela tumor xenografts. our results show that carnosine inhibits the activity of carbonic anhydrase ix (ca ix), a transmembrane protein that regulates extracellular ph, thereby preventing acidification of the tumor microenvironment. this, in turn, leads to a reduction in tumor growth and angiogenesis, as well as an increase in apoptosis. moreover, we demonstrate that the effects of carnosine are mediated by its ability to induce oxidative stress and inhibit the akt/mtor signaling pathway. our findings suggest that carnosine may be a potential therapeutic agent for the treatment of cancer, particularly in combination with other anticancer drugs that target the tumor microenvironment.", "pol_abstract": "in this study, we aimed to explore the impact of carnosine, an anti-tumorigenic agent known for inhibiting cancer cell proliferation, on the role of carbonic anhydrase ix (ca ix) in the context of solid tumors. ca ix, a transmembrane enzyme found in various types of solid tumors, is primarily regulated by the hypoxia-inducible factor (hif) pathway, which helps to maintain ph homeostasis in hypoxic conditions and leads to acidification of the tumor microenvironment. we sought to investigate whether carnosine's antitumor activity involves modulation of hif-1\u03b1 and ca ix at a transcriptional and translational level, as well as changes in ca ix function.", "mix_abstract": "the transmembrane enzyme carbonic anhydrase ix (ca ix) is found in various solid tumors. the hypoxia-inducible factor (hif) pathway predominantly regulates the expression of ca ix, which facilitates the maintenance of intracellular ph balance in hypoxic conditions, leading to acidification of the tumor microenvironment.  carnosine ( \u03b2-alanyl-l-histidine ) is an anti-tumorigenic agent that inhibits the proliferation of cancer cells  the focus of our study was to explore how carnosine's antitumor effects are influenced by ca ix, and whether this involves changes in hif-1\u03b1 and ca ix at the transcriptional and translational level, as well as alterations in the function of ca ix."}
{"title": "effect of a new formulation of micronized and ultramicronized n-palmitoylethanolamine in a tibia fracture mouse model of complex_regional_pain_syndrome", "abstract": "complex regional pain syndrome type 1 ( crps-i ) is a disabling and frequently chronic condition . it involves the extremities and is a frequent consequence of distal tibia and radius fractures . the inflamed appearance of the affected crps-i limb suggests that local production of inflammatory mediators may be implicated in the ensuing etiology . a rodent tibia fracture model , characterized by inflammation , chronic unilateral hindlimb warmth , edema , protein extravasation , allodynia and hyperalgesia resembles the clinical features of patients with acute crps-i . n-palmitoylethanolamine ( pea ) , a member of the family of naturally-occurring n-acylethanolamines , is well-known for its ability to modulate inflammatory processes and regulate pain sensitivity .", "gen_abstract": "the aim of this study was to investigate the effect of a new formulation of micronized and ultramicronized n-palmitoylethanolamine (pea) in a mouse model of complex regional pain syndrome (crps) following tibia fracture. crps is a debilitating condition that often develops after an injury or surgery, and is characterized by chronic pain, swelling, and changes in skin color and temperature. pea is a natural fatty acid compound that has been shown to have anti-inflammatory and analgesic effects. in this study, a tibia fracture was induced in mice, and the animals were randomly assigned to receive either the new pea formulation or a control treatment. the mice were then evaluated for pain behavior, inflammation, and bone healing. the results of this study suggest that the new formulation of pea may have a beneficial effect in reducing pain and inflammation, and may also improve bone healing in this mouse model of crps. these findings provide a promising basis for further investigation of the potential therapeutic use of pea in the treatment of crps.", "pol_abstract": "crps-i is a chronic and debilitating condition that frequently affects the extremities, often as a consequence of distal tibia and radius fractures. the inflamed appearance of the affected limb suggests that the production of inflammatory mediators may be involved in its development. a rodent model of tibia fracture exhibits inflammation, chronic unilateral hindlimb warmth, edema, protein extravasation, allodynia, and hyperalgesia, which closely resemble the clinical features of acute crps-i in patients. n-palmitoylethanolamine (pea), a naturally occurring n-acylethanolamine, is renowned for its capacity to modulate inflammatory processes and regulate pain sensitivity.", "mix_abstract": "complex regional pain syndrome type 1 (crps-i) is a disabling and often chronic condition that affects the extremities. it is a common complication of distal tibia and radius fractures. the inflamed appearance of the affected limb in crps-i suggests that the local production of inflammatory mediators may be involved in the development of the condition.  a rodent tibia fracture model , characterized by inflammation , chronic unilateral hindlimb warmth , edema , protein extravasation , allodynia and hyperalgesia resembles the clinical features of patients with acute crps-i  n-palmitoylethanolamine (pea), a naturally occurring member of the n-acylethanolamine family, is widely recognized for its capacity to regulate pain sensitivity and modulate inflammatory processes."}
{"title": "association of gestational diabetes mellitus ( gdm ) with subclinical atherosclerosis : a systemic review and meta-analysis", "abstract": "background gestational diabetes_mellitus ( gdm ) is associated with an elevated risk of adverse health outcomes such as type 2 diabetes and cardiovascular diseases . carotid intima-media thickness ( cimt ) is increasingly used as a noninvasive marker for subclinical atherosclerosis . whether there is a direct correlation between gdm and elevated cimt is still controversial . methods pubmed , embase and reference lists of relevant papers were reviewed . studies assessing the relationship between gdm and cimt were included . weighted mean difference ( wmd ) of cimt was calculated using random-effect models . results fifteen studies with a total of 2247 subjects were included in our analysis , giving a pooled wmd of 0.05 ( 95 % confidence interval [ ci ] 0.03 \u20130.07", "gen_abstract": "\n\nthis systematic review and meta-analysis aimed to assess the association between gestational diabetes mellitus (gdm) and subclinical atherosclerosis. the authors conducted a comprehensive search of multiple databases to identify relevant studies, and the results of 14 studies were analyzed. the meta-analysis found that women with a history of gdm had a significantly higher risk of subclinical atherosclerosis compared to those without gdm. the findings of this study highlight the importance of early detection and management of gdm, as it may help to prevent or delay the onset of cardiovascular disease.", "pol_abstract": "the occurrence of gestational diabetes mellitus (gdm) is linked to an increased risk of adverse health outcomes, including type 2 diabetes and cardiovascular diseases. carotid intima-media thickness (cimt) is now commonly used as a non-invasive marker for subclinical atherosclerosis, but whether there exists a direct correlation between gdm and elevated cimt remains a topic of controversy. to investigate this correlation, we conducted a review of pubmed, embase, and reference lists of relevant papers. our analysis included fifteen studies with a total of 2247 subjects, and we used random-effect models to calculate the weighted mean difference (wmd) of cimt. the results indicated a pooled wmd of 0.05 (95% confidence interval [ci] 0.03 \u2013 0.07), suggesting a potential relationship between gdm and elevated cimt.", "mix_abstract": "background gestational diabetes_mellitus ( gdm ) is associated with an elevated risk of adverse health outcomes such as type 2 diabetes and cardiovascular diseases    carotid intima-media thickness ( cimt ) is increasingly used as a noninvasive marker for subclinical atherosclerosis  the controversy surrounding the existence of a direct correlation between gdm and elevated cimt was examined through a review of relevant papers on pubmed, embase, and reference lists. studies that investigated the relationship between gdm and cimt were analyzed, and the random-effect models were used to calculate the weighted mean difference (wmd) of cimt. a total of 2247 subjects from 15 studies were included in the analysis, resulting in a pooled wmd of 0.05 (95% confidence interval [ci] 0.03-0.08). 07"}
{"title": "preconditioning strategies for kidney ischemia_reperfusion_injury : implications of the \u201c time-window \u201d in remote ischemic_preconditioning", "abstract": "remote ischemic_preconditioning ( ip ) is a potential renoprotective strategy . however , there has been no demonstrated result in large animals and the role of time window in remote ip remains to be defined . using a single-kidney porcine model , we evaluated organ protective function of remote ip in renal ischemia_reperfusion_injury . fifteen yorkshire pigs , 20 weeks old and weighing 35\u201338 kg were used . one week after left nephrectomy , we performed remote ip ( clamping right external iliac artery , 2 cycles of 10 minutes ) and right renal artery clamping ( warm ischemia ; 90 minutes ) .", "gen_abstract": "this article explores preconditioning strategies to mitigate kidney ischemia-reperfusion injury (iri) with a specific focus on the time-window involved in remote ischemic preconditioning (ripc). kidney iri is a common complication of surgical procedures, particularly in patients with pre-existing renal dysfunction. ripc is a non-invasive method of preconditioning that involves inducing transient ischemia in a remote organ or tissue to protect against subsequent ischemic injury. the article reviews the mechanisms underlying ripc and the potential benefits of this technique in mitigating kidney iri. it also discusses the optimal timing of ripc in relation to the onset of kidney ischemia and reperfusion. the implications of ripc for clinical practice are discussed, with a focus on how the timing of ripc may influence its efficacy. overall, this article provides insight into the use of preconditioning strategies, particularly ripc, as a means of mitigating kidney iri and improving clinical outcomes.", "pol_abstract": "remote ischemic preconditioning (ip) is a potential method for renoprotection. however, its effectiveness in large animals has not been demonstrated and the optimal time window for remote ip is yet to be defined. in this study, we investigated the protective effects of remote ip on renal ischemia-reperfusion injury using a single-kidney porcine model. we conducted the experiment on fifteen 20-week-old yorkshire pigs weighing 35-38 kg, who underwent left nephrectomy one week before the study. remote ip was performed by clamping the right external iliac artery for two cycles of 10 minutes, followed by warm ischemia induced by right renal artery clamping for 90 minutes.", "mix_abstract": "remote ischemic_preconditioning ( ip ) is a potential renoprotective strategy  \n\nalthough the protective effect of remote ischemic preconditioning (ip) in large animals remains to be established, we conducted a study to investigate its potential in preventing renal ischemia-reperfusion injury using a porcine model with a single kidney. the study involved 15 yorkshire pigs that weighed 35-38 kg and were 20 weeks old. a week after removing the left kidney, we subjected the animals to two cycles of 10-minute clamping of the right external iliac artery to induce remote ip, followed by 90 minutes of warm ischemia through clamping of the right renal artery."}
{"title": "simvastatin increases the antineoplastic actions of paclitaxel carried in lipid nanoemulsions in melanoma-bearing mice", "abstract": "purpose lipid nanoemulsions ( ldes ) that bind to low-density lipoprotein ( ldl ) receptors used as carriers of paclitaxel ( ptx ) can decrease toxicity and increase ptx antitumoral action . the administration of simvastatin ( simva ) , which lowers ldl-cholesterol , was tested as an adjuvant to commercial ptx and to ptx associated with lde ( lde-ptx ) . materials and methods b16f10 melanoma-bearing mice were treated with saline solution or lde ( controls ) , simva , ptx , ptx and simva , lde-ptx , and lde-ptx and simva : ptx dose 17.5 \u03bcmol/kg ( three intraperitoneal injections , 3 alternate days ) : simva 50 mg/kg/day by gavage , 9 consecutive days .", "gen_abstract": "this study investigated the potential synergistic effects of simvastatin and paclitaxel delivered in lipid nanoemulsions on the treatment of melanoma in mice. results showed that the combination of simvastatin and paclitaxel-loaded nanoemulsions increased the antineoplastic actions of paclitaxel in melanoma-bearing mice, including reducing tumor growth and increasing survival rates. the findings suggest that simvastatin may enhance the efficacy of paclitaxel-loaded nanoemulsions as a potential therapeutic strategy for melanoma treatment.", "pol_abstract": "the aim of this study was to evaluate the potential of using lipid nanoemulsions (ldes) that target low-density lipoprotein (ldl) receptors as a carrier for paclitaxel (ptx) to reduce toxicity and increase its anticancer effects. the study investigated whether simvastatin (simva), which is known to lower ldl-cholesterol, could enhance the efficacy of commercial ptx and lde-ptx. b16f10 melanoma-bearing mice were treated with various combinations of saline solution, lde (controls), simva, ptx, ptx and simva, lde-ptx, and lde-ptx and simva, with a ptx dose of 17.5 \u03bcmol/kg administered via three intraperitoneal injections every alternate day, and simva at a dose of 50 mg/kg/day by gavage for nine consecutive days.", "mix_abstract": "purpose lipid nanoemulsions ( ldes ) that bind to low-density lipoprotein ( ldl ) receptors used as carriers of paclitaxel ( ptx ) can decrease toxicity and increase ptx antitumoral action  the researchers conducted a study to evaluate the use of simvastatin (simva) as a complementary treatment to standard ptx and lde-ptx, which both target ldl-cholesterol. the study was performed on b16f10 melanoma-bearing mice, who were administered either a saline solution or lde as control treatments. other treatments included simva, ptx, ptx combined with simva, lde-ptx, and lde-ptx with simva. the mice received a ptx dose of 17.5 \u03bcmol/kg via three intraperitoneal injections administered on alternate days. the simva dose was 50 mg/kg/day, given orally for nine consecutive days. the materials and methods used in the study were as follows."}
{"title": "establishment of the tree shrew as an alcohol-induced fatty_liver model for the study of alcoholic_liver_diseases", "abstract": "currently , the pathogenesis of alcoholic_liver_diseases ( alds ) is not clear . as a result , there is no effective treatment for alds . one limitation is the lack of a suitable animal model for use in studying alds . the tree shrew is a lower primate animal , characterized by a high-alcohol diet . this work aimed to establish a fatty_liver model using tree shrews and to assess the animals \u2019 suitability for the study of alds . tree shrews were treated with alcohol solutions ( 10 % and 20 % ) for two weeks . hemophysiology , blood alcohol concentrations ( bacs ) , oxidative stress factors , alcohol metabolic enzymes and hepatic pathology were checked and assayed with an automatic biochemical analyzer , enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay ( elisa ) , western blot , hematoxylin-eosin ( he ) staining and oil red o staining , and magnetic resonance imaging ( mri", "gen_abstract": "the establishment of a reliable animal model is crucial for the study of alcoholic liver diseases. in this study, the tree shrew was evaluated as a potential model for alcohol-induced fatty liver. after chronic alcohol administration, the tree shrew exhibited hepatic steatosis, inflammation, and fibrosis, mimicking human alcoholic liver disease. the model was also found to be sensitive to various treatments, making it a promising tool for the development of new therapies. overall, the tree shrew model holds great potential for advancing our understanding of the pathogenesis and treatment of alcoholic liver diseases.", "pol_abstract": "the etiology of alcoholic liver diseases (alds) remains unclear, leading to a lack of effective treatment options. additionally, a suitable animal model for the study of alds has yet to be established. in this study, tree shrews were utilized as a lower primate animal model due to their high-alcohol diet. the objective was to establish a fatty liver model in these animals and evaluate their appropriateness for studying alds. to achieve this, tree shrews were administered alcohol solutions of 10% and 20% for a two-week period. their hemophysiology, blood alcohol concentrations (bacs), oxidative stress factors, alcohol metabolic enzymes, and hepatic pathology were analyzed using various methods, such as an automatic biochemical analyzer, enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (elisa), western blot, hematoxylin-eosin (he) staining and oil red o staining, and magnetic resonance imaging (mri).", "mix_abstract": "currently , the pathogenesis of alcoholic_liver_diseases ( alds ) is not clear  due to the absence of any efficient therapy for alds, the unavailability of a fitting animal model for investigating such diseases is a significant constraint. the tree shrew, a lower primate mammal, known for its high-alcohol diet, has been studied to develop a model for fatty liver and to evaluate its suitability for researching alds. to achieve this, tree shrews were administered alcohol solutions of 10% and 20% for a duration of two weeks.  hemophysiology , blood alcohol concentrations ( bacs ) , oxidative stress factors , alcohol metabolic enzymes and hepatic pathology were checked and assayed with an automatic biochemical analyzer , enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay ( elisa ) , western blot , hematoxylin-eosin ( he ) staining and oil red o staining , and magnetic resonance imaging ( mri"}
{"title": "p300 exerts an epigenetic role in chronic neuropathic_pain through its acetyltransferase activity in rats following chronic_constriction_injury ( cci )", "abstract": "background neuropathic_pain is detrimental to human health ; however , its pathogenesis still remains largely unknown . overexpression of pain-associated genes and increased nociceptive somato-sensitivity are well observed in neuropathic_pain . the importance of epigenetic mechanisms in regulating the expression of pro- or anti-nociceptive genes has been revealed by studies recently , and we hypothesize that the transcriptional coactivator and the histone acetyltransferase e1a binding protein p300 ( p300 ) , as a part of the epigenetic mechanisms of gene regulation , may be involved in the pathogenesis of neuropathic_pain induced by chronic_constriction_injury ( cci ) . to test this hypothesis , two different approaches were used in this study : ( i ) down-regulating p300 with specific small hairpin rna ( shrna ) and ( ii ) chemical inhibition of p300 acetyltransferase activity by a small molecule inhibitor ,", "gen_abstract": "chronic neuropathic pain is a debilitating condition that affects millions of people worldwide. recent research has identified the p300 protein as a potential target for the treatment of chronic neuropathic pain. in this study, we investigate the role of p300 in chronic neuropathic pain following chronic constriction injury (cci) in rats. we found that p300 exerts an epigenetic role in chronic neuropathic pain through its acetyltransferase activity, which alters histone acetylation patterns in the dorsal root ganglia and spinal cord. our results suggest that targeting p300 and its acetyltransferase activity may offer a novel therapeutic approach for the treatment of chronic neuropathic pain.", "pol_abstract": "context: the abstract discusses the potential involvement of the transcriptional coactivator and histone acetyltransferase, p300, in the pathogenesis of neuropathic pain induced by chronic constriction injury (cci).\n\nrevised abstract: neuropathic pain has serious health consequences, but its underlying causes are not well understood. studies have shown that overexpression of pain-related genes and increased sensitivity to pain are observed in neuropathic pain. recently, studies have revealed the importance of epigenetic mechanisms in regulating the expression of pro- and anti-nociceptive genes. we hypothesize that p300, a transcriptional coactivator and histone acetyltransferase, is involved in the development of neuropathic pain induced by cci. to test this hypothesis, two different approaches were used: (i) down-regulating p300 with specific small hairpin rna (shrna), and (ii) inhibiting p300 acetyltransferase activity using a small molecule inhibitor.", "mix_abstract": "background: neuropathic pain is a debilitating condition that can severely impact human health. however, its pathogenesis remains largely unknown. studies have observed overexpression of pain-associated genes and increased nociceptive somato-sensitivity in neuropathic pain. recently, the importance of epigenetic mechanisms in regulating the expression of pro- or anti-nociceptive genes has been revealed. we hypothesize that the transcriptional coactivator and histone acetyltransferase, e1a binding protein p300 (p300), may be involved in the pathogenesis of neuropathic pain induced by chronic constriction injury (cci), as a part of the epigenetic mechanisms of gene regulation.  to test this hypothesis , two different approaches were used in this study : ( i ) down-regulating p300 with specific small hairpin rna ( shrna ) and ( ii ) chemical inhibition of p300 acetyltransferase activity by a small molecule inhibitor ,"}
{"title": "thermal decomposition of the amino_acids glycine , cysteine , aspartic_acid , asparagine , glutamic_acid , glutamine , arginine and histidine", "abstract": "background the pathways of thermal instability of amino_acids have been unknown . new mass spectrometric data allow unequivocal quantitative identification of the decomposition products . results calorimetry , thermogravimetry and mass spectrometry were used to follow the thermal decomposition of the eight amino_acids g , c , d , n , e , q , r and h between 185 \u00b0c and 280 \u00b0c . endothermic heats of decomposition between 72 and 151 kj/mol are needed to form 12 to 70 % volatile products . this process is neither melting nor sublimation . with exception of cysteine they emit mainly h 2 o , some nh 3 and no co 2 .", "gen_abstract": "the thermal decomposition of eight amino acids, including glycine, cysteine, aspartic acid, asparagine, glutamic acid, glutamine, arginine, and histidine, was investigated in this study. the amino acids were subjected to high-temperature conditions, and the resulting decomposition products were analyzed using various techniques. the decomposition pathways of the different amino acids were identified, and the possible mechanisms of the reactions were proposed. the results of the study provide important insights into the thermal stability of these amino acids and the chemical transformations that can occur under high-temperature conditions, which have implications for many fields, including biochemistry, food science, and materials science.", "pol_abstract": "previously, the thermal instability pathways of amino acids were unknown. however, new mass spectrometric data now allows for clear and precise quantitative identification of their decomposition products. in this study, the thermal decomposition of eight specific amino acids (g, c, d, n, e, q, r, and h) was tracked using calorimetry, thermogravimetry, and mass spectrometry, within a temperature range of 185\u00b0c to 280\u00b0c. the process of decomposition requires endothermic heats between 72 to 151 kj/mol to form 12% to 70% of volatile products. this process is not related to melting or sublimation, and with the exception of cysteine, the amino acids primarily emit h2o, some nh3, and no co2.", "mix_abstract": "until now, the mechanisms behind the thermal instability of amino acids have been unclear.  new mass spectrometric data allow unequivocal quantitative identification of the decomposition products  calorimetry, thermogravimetry, and mass spectrometry were utilized to track the thermal breakdown of eight amino acids, namely g, c, d, n, e, q, r, and h, in the temperature range of 185\u00b0c to 280\u00b0c. the decomposition process was characterized by endothermic heats ranging from 72 to 151 kj/mol, resulting in the production of volatile products ranging from 12% to 70%. the process was not related to melting or sublimation, and apart from cysteine, the amino acids released mainly water and some ammonia, but not carbon dioxide."}
{"title": "mir-186 suppresses the growth and metastasis of bladder_cancer by targeting nsbp1", "abstract": "background increasing evidence has shown that micrornas function as oncogenes or tumor suppressors in human malignancies , but the roles of mir-186 in human bladder_cancer ( bc ) is still unclear . methods first , quantitative real-time pcr ( qrt-pcr ) was performed to detect mir-186 expression in bladder_cancer tissues and cell lines . then , bioinformatics analysis , combined with luciferase reporter assay demonstrated the target gene of mir-186 . finally , the roles of mir-186 in regulation of tumor proliferation and invasion were further investigated . results here , our study showed mir-186 was down-regulated in bladder_cancer tissues and cell lines .", "gen_abstract": "\n\nbladder cancer is a common malignant tumor with high morbidity and mortality. micrornas (mirnas) play a crucial role in the progression and metastasis of bladder cancer. in this study, we focused on the functional role and molecular mechanism of mir-186 in bladder cancer. we found that mir-186 was significantly downregulated in bladder cancer tissues and cell lines. overexpression of mir-186 suppressed bladder cancer cell growth, migration, and invasion both in vitro and in vivo. furthermore, we identified nsbp1 as a direct target of mir-186 in bladder cancer. overexpression of nsbp1 rescued the suppressive effects of mir-186 on bladder cancer growth and metastasis. in conclusion, our findings suggest that mir-186 functions as a tumor suppressor in bladder cancer by targeting nsbp1 and may serve as a potential therapeutic target for bladder cancer treatment.", "pol_abstract": "the current research indicates that micrornas can act as oncogenes or tumor suppressors in various types of human cancers, including bladder cancer. however, the specific function of mir-186 in bladder cancer remains uncertain. to address this, the researchers employed quantitative real-time pcr to measure mir-186 expression levels in both bladder cancer tissues and cell lines. in addition, they used bioinformatics analysis and luciferase reporter assays to identify the target gene of mir-186, and investigated its impact on tumor proliferation and invasion. the study findings revealed that mir-186 was down-regulated in both bladder cancer tissues and cell lines.", "mix_abstract": "background increasing evidence has shown that micrornas function as oncogenes or tumor suppressors in human malignancies , but the roles of mir-186 in human bladder_cancer ( bc ) is still unclear  the study employed a methodology that involved carrying out quantitative real-time pcr (qrt-pcr) to identify the expression of mir-186 in bladder cancer tissues and cell lines. subsequently, a combination of bioinformatics analysis and luciferase reporter assay was used to establish the target gene of mir-186. the study further investigated the impact of mir-186 on the regulation of tumor proliferation and invasion. the findings revealed that mir-186 was significantly down-regulated in both bladder cancer tissues and cell lines."}
{"title": "genetic_syndromes , maternal_diseases and antenatal factors associated with autism_spectrum_disorders ( asd )", "abstract": "autism_spectrum_disorder ( asd ) affecting about 1 % of all children is associated , in addition to complex genetic factors , with a variety of prenatal , perinatal , and postnatal etiologies . in addition , asd is often an important clinical presentation of some well-known genetic_syndromes in human . we discuss these syndromes as well as the role of the more important prenatal factors affecting the fetus throughout pregnancy which may also be associated with asd . among the genetic disorders we find fragile x , rett syndrome , tuberous sclerosis , timothy syndrome , phelan\u2013mcdermid syndrome , hamartoma tumor syndrome , prader-willi and angelman syndromes , and a few others .", "gen_abstract": "this review explores the relationship between genetic syndromes, maternal diseases, and antenatal factors that are associated with autism spectrum disorders (asd). asd is a neurodevelopmental disorder that is characterized by social communication deficits and repetitive behaviors. although the etiology of asd remains largely unknown, research has suggested that there are various risk factors that may contribute to its development, including genetic mutations, maternal health conditions, and environmental factors that occur during pregnancy. this review summarizes the current evidence on the genetic syndromes, maternal diseases, and antenatal factors that have been associated with the risk of developing asd. the findings of this review highlight the importance of understanding the complex interplay of these factors in the etiology of asd, and provide insights for future research and clinical interventions.", "pol_abstract": "autism spectrum disorder (asd) affects approximately 1% of all children and is linked to complex genetic factors as well as various prenatal, perinatal, and postnatal causes. additionally, some commonly known genetic syndromes in humans often present asd as a significant clinical feature. this article examines these syndromes and the crucial prenatal factors that impact fetal development throughout pregnancy, which may also be associated with asd. among the genetic disorders associated with asd are fragile x, rett syndrome, tuberous sclerosis, timothy syndrome, phelan-mcdermid syndrome, hamartoma tumor syndrome, prader-willi and angelman syndromes, and a few others.", "mix_abstract": "autism spectrum disorder (asd) affects approximately 1% of all children and is associated, in addition to complex genetic factors, with a variety of prenatal, perinatal, and postnatal etiologies. additionally, asd is often a significant clinical presentation of some well-known genetic syndromes in humans.  we discuss these syndromes as well as the role of the more important prenatal factors affecting the fetus throughout pregnancy which may also be associated with asd  several genetic disorders including fragile x, rett syndrome, tuberous sclerosis, timothy syndrome, phelan-mcdermid syndrome, hamartoma tumor syndrome, prader-willi syndrome, angelman syndrome, and a few others are found among the affected individuals."}
{"title": "albuminuria , cardiovascular risk factors and disease management in subjects with type 2 diabetes : a cross sectional study", "abstract": "background epidemiological studies have shown that microalbuminuria is an important risk factor for arteriosclerosis , coronary heart disease and other vascular diseases in persons with type 2 diabetes . in the present study we examined the prevalence and risk factors for micro- and macroalbuminuria and examined glycemic control as well as treatment of modifiable cardiovascular risk factors in persons with known type 2 diabetes in germany . methods the presented data were derived from the 'kora augsburg diabetes family study ' , conducted between october 2001 and september 2002 . participants were adults aged 29 years and older with previously diagnosed type 2 diabetes ( n = 581 ) .", "gen_abstract": "\n\nthis cross-sectional study aimed to investigate the relationship between albuminuria, cardiovascular risk factors, and disease management in individuals with type 2 diabetes. the study involved analyzing data from a sample of individuals with type 2 diabetes, examining their albuminuria levels and assessing their cardiovascular risk factors and disease management. the results showed a significant association between albuminuria and cardiovascular risk factors, as well as poor disease management. these findings highlight the importance of early detection and management of albuminuria in individuals with type 2 diabetes to reduce their risk of cardiovascular disease.", "pol_abstract": "the prevalence and risk factors for micro- and macroalbuminuria, as well as the treatment of modifiable cardiovascular risk factors, were examined in individuals with known type 2 diabetes in germany. this study was conducted using data from the 'kora augsburg diabetes family study', which was conducted between october 2001 and september 2002. the participants in this study were adults aged 29 years and older who had previously been diagnosed with type 2 diabetes (n=581). epidemiological studies have demonstrated that microalbuminuria is a significant risk factor for arteriosclerosis, coronary heart disease, and other vascular diseases in persons with type 2 diabetes.", "mix_abstract": "background epidemiological studies have shown that microalbuminuria is an important risk factor for arteriosclerosis , coronary heart disease and other vascular diseases in persons with type 2 diabetes  the aim of this study was to investigate the occurrence and potential risk factors associated with micro- and macroalbuminuria, along with analyzing the management of glycemic control and modifiable cardiovascular risk factors among individuals diagnosed with type 2 diabetes in germany. data for the study was obtained from the 'kora augsburg diabetes family study', which was conducted between october 2001 and september 2002. the study included a total of 581 participants, all of whom were adults aged 29 years and above and had been previously diagnosed with type 2 diabetes."}
{"title": "broad spectrum of skeletal_malformation complex in patients with cleidocranial_dysplasia_syndrome : radiographic and tomographic study", "abstract": "purpose cleidocranial_dysplasia is an autosomal dominant disorder characterized by defective ossification of the intramembraneous ossification ( primarily the clavicles , cranium , and pelvis ) , and it is caused by mutations in the runx 2 gene that is responsible for osteoblast differentiation . spine deformities were of progressive nature and considered to be the major orthopedic abnormalities encountered in our practice in patients with cleidocranial_dysplasia . we aimed to further delineate the underlying spine pathology and its etiological understanding . extraspinal deformities were dealt with respectively . material and methods in this paper , we describe 7 patients who were consistent with the phenotypic and the genotypic characterization of cleidocranial_dysplasia .", "gen_abstract": "cleidocranial dysplasia (ccd) syndrome is a rare genetic disorder that affects skeletal development, leading to a broad spectrum of skeletal malformations. this study aims to investigate the radiographic and tomographic features of ccd syndrome in patients with skeletal malformations. a retrospective analysis of radiographic and tomographic images of ccd syndrome patients with skeletal malformations was conducted. the study found that ccd syndrome patients exhibited a range of skeletal malformations, including delayed ossification, abnormal bone shape, and incomplete or absent skeletal structures. additionally, the study identified specific patterns of skeletal malformations that were characteristic of ccd syndrome, including underdeveloped clavicles and cranial abnormalities. the findings of this study highlight the importance of identifying ccd syndrome as a potential cause of skeletal malformations and provide insight into the specific patterns of skeletal malformations that may indicate the presence of ccd syndrome.", "pol_abstract": "the aim of this study was to investigate the spine pathology and etiology in patients with cleidocranial_dysplasia, an autosomal dominant disorder caused by mutations in the runx 2 gene resulting in defective ossification of intramembraneous ossification, primarily affecting the clavicles, cranium, and pelvis. progressive spine deformities were observed as the major orthopedic abnormality in these patients, and we aimed to further understand their underlying cause. seven patients consistent with the phenotypic and genotypic characterization of cleidocranial_dysplasia were included in this study, and extraspinal deformities were also considered. the methods and materials used in this study are described in this paper.", "mix_abstract": "the aim of this study is to investigate the spine pathology and its underlying causes in patients with cleidocranial_dysplasia, an autosomal dominant disorder caused by mutations in the runx2 gene that affects intramembranous ossification primarily in the clavicles, cranium, and pelvis. progressive spine deformities are a major orthopedic abnormality in these patients, while extraspinal deformities are also addressed in this study.  material and methods in this paper , we describe 7 patients who were consistent with the phenotypic and the genotypic characterization of cleidocranial_dysplasia"}
{"title": "acute spontaneous subdural_hematoma caused by skull metastasis of hepatocellular_carcinoma : case report", "abstract": "background skull and intracranial metastases from hepatocellular_carcinoma ( hcc ) have seldom been reported . a skull metastasis of hcc with a tumor bleeding resulting in spontaneous subdural_hematoma ( sdh ) is extremely unusual . we report the first case of acute spontaneous sdh in a 69-year-old woman who presented with acute onset of headache , because of tumor bleeding caused by skull metastasis of hcc . case presentation a 69-year-old woman was referred to our hospital because of progressive headache , nausea , and vomiting for 3 days . brain computed tomography ( ct ) performed in the emergency department ( ed ) revealed a left temporal sdh with a slight mass effect and a small left temporal bone", "gen_abstract": "\n\nthis case report describes a rare presentation of hepatocellular carcinoma, where the patient developed an acute spontaneous subdural hematoma caused by a skull metastasis. the report highlights the importance of recognizing atypical symptoms and performing thorough investigations to uncover underlying malignancies. the patient underwent urgent surgical intervention, but unfortunately succumbed to the disease shortly thereafter. the case underscores the need for heightened awareness of potential metastases in patients with hepatocellular carcinoma, especially in those who present with unusual neurological symptoms.", "pol_abstract": "background:\nskull and intracranial metastases from hepatocellular carcinoma (hcc) are rare occurrences. it is highly unusual for a skull metastasis of hcc to result in a tumor bleeding that causes spontaneous subdural hematoma (sdh).\n\ncase presentation:\nin this report, we present the first case of acute spontaneous sdh in a 69-year-old woman who presented with an abrupt onset of headache due to tumor bleeding caused by skull metastasis of hcc. the patient was referred to our hospital due to progressive headache, nausea, and vomiting over the course of 3 days. a brain computed tomography (ct) was performed in the emergency department (ed) which revealed a left temporal sdh with a slight mass effect, and a small left temporal bone was also detected.", "mix_abstract": "revised: \"skull and intracranial metastases from hepatocellular carcinoma (hcc) have rarely been reported in the literature.\"  a skull metastasis of hcc with a tumor bleeding resulting in spontaneous subdural_hematoma ( sdh ) is extremely unusual  here's the polished text:\n\n\"we present a case of acute spontaneous subdural hematoma (sdh) in a 69-year-old woman who presented with a sudden onset of headache, caused by tumor bleeding from a skull metastasis of hepatocellular carcinoma (hcc).\n\ncase presentation: a 69-year-old woman was referred to our hospital due to the progressive onset of headache, nausea, and vomiting for three days.\"  brain computed tomography ( ct ) performed in the emergency department ( ed ) revealed a left temporal sdh with a slight mass effect and a small left temporal bone"}
{"title": "spinal myeloid_sarcoma \u201c chloroma \u201d presenting as cervical_radiculopathy : case report", "abstract": "study design case report . objective myeloid_sarcoma ( also known as chloroma ) is a rare , extramedullary tumor composed of immature granulocytic cells . it may occur early in the course of acute or chronic leukemia or myeloproliferative disorders . spinal cord invasion by myeloid_sarcoma is rare . the authors report a rare case of spinal myeloid_sarcoma presenting as cervical_radiculopathy . methods a previously healthy 43-year-old man presented with progressive neck , right shoulder , and arm pain . cervical magnetic resonance imaging ( mri ) revealed a very large enhancing extradural soft tissue mass extending from c7 through t1 , with severe narrowing of the thecal sac at the t1 level .", "gen_abstract": "this case report describes a rare presentation of spinal myeloid sarcoma, also known as chloroma, as cervical radiculopathy. spinal myeloid sarcoma is an aggressive extramedullary tumor that can arise from myeloid precursor cells and infiltrate various tissues, including the spinal cord. in this case, a patient presented with symptoms of cervical radiculopathy, including neck pain, weakness, and numbness in the upper extremities. imaging studies revealed a mass compressing the cervical spinal cord. the patient underwent surgical resection of the tumor, and histopathological analysis confirmed a diagnosis of spinal myeloid sarcoma. the case highlights the importance of considering rare and atypical presentations of spinal tumors, even when initial clinical findings suggest more common diagnoses.", "pol_abstract": "this is a case report study design that focuses on a rare tumor called myeloid sarcoma or chloroma, which is composed of immature granulocytic cells and can occur in acute or chronic leukemia or myeloproliferative disorders. although spinal cord invasion is rare, the authors present a rare case of spinal myeloid sarcoma that presented as cervical radiculopathy. a previously healthy 43-year-old man with progressive neck, right shoulder, and arm pain was evaluated using cervical magnetic resonance imaging (mri), which revealed a large enhancing extradural soft tissue mass extending from c7 through t1 with severe narrowing of the thecal sac at the t1 level.", "mix_abstract": "study design case report  objective: \n\nmyeloid sarcoma, also known as chloroma, is a rare extramedullary tumor composed of immature granulocytic cells. it may occur early in the course of acute or chronic leukemia or myeloproliferative disorders. spinal cord invasion by myeloid sarcoma is rare. the authors report a rare case of spinal myeloid sarcoma presenting as cervical radiculopathy. \n\nmethods: \n\na previously healthy 43-year-old man presented with progressive neck, right shoulder, and arm pain. cervical magnetic resonance imaging (mri) revealed a very large enhancing extradural soft tissue mass extending from c7 through t1, with severe narrowing of the thecal sac at the t1 level."}
{"title": "regulatory effect of calcineurin inhibitor , tacrolimus , on il-6/sil-6r-mediated rankl expression through jak2-stat3-socs3 signaling pathway in fibroblast-like synoviocytes", "abstract": "introduction this study investigated whether the calcineurin inhibitor , tacrolimus , suppresses receptor activator of nf-\u03bab ligand ( rankl ) expression in fibroblast-like synoviocytes ( fls ) through regulation of il-6/janus activated kinase ( jak2 ) /signal transducer and activator of transcription-3 ( stat3 ) and suppressor of cytokine signaling ( socs3 ) signaling . methods the expression of rankl , jak2 , stat3 , and socs3 proteins was assessed by western blot analysis , real-time pcr and elisa in il-6 combined with soluble il-6 receptor ( sil-6r ) -stimulated rheumatoid arthritis ( ra ) -fls with or without tacrolimus treatment .", "gen_abstract": "the study investigates the regulatory effect of tacrolimus, a calcineurin inhibitor, on the expression of rankl, mediated by the il-6/sil-6r signaling pathway in fibroblast-like synoviocytes. the study utilizes a jak2-stat3-socs3 signaling pathway to explore the underlying mechanisms by which tacrolimus regulates rankl expression. the results suggest that tacrolimus suppresses the expression of rankl by inhibiting the il-6/sil-6r signaling pathway and downregulating the jak2-stat3-socs3 pathway in fibroblast-like synoviocytes. these findings provide new insights into the potential therapeutic applications of tacrolimus in the treatment of inflammatory diseases such as rheumatoid arthritis.", "pol_abstract": "in this study, the researchers aimed to investigate whether tacrolimus, a calcineurin inhibitor, has the ability to suppress the expression of receptor activator of nf-\u03bab ligand (rankl) in fibroblast-like synoviocytes (fls). they examined the effects of tacrolimus on il-6/janus activated kinase (jak2)/signal transducer and activator of transcription-3 (stat3) and suppressor of cytokine signaling (socs3) signaling pathways in il-6 and soluble il-6 receptor (sil-6r) stimulated fls from rheumatoid arthritis (ra) patients. the researchers used western blot analysis, real-time pcr, and elisa to measure the expression of rankl, jak2, stat3, and socs3 proteins in fls with and without tacrolimus treatment.", "mix_abstract": "this study aimed to investigate the potential of tacrolimus, a calcineurin inhibitor, to suppress the expression of receptor activator of nf-\u03bab ligand (rankl) in fibroblast-like synoviocytes (fls) through regulation of the il-6/janus activated kinase (jak2)/signal transducer and activator of transcription-3 (stat3) and suppressor of cytokine signaling (socs3) signaling pathways. the research utilized western blot analysis, real-time pcr, and elisa to evaluate the expression levels of rankl, jak2, stat3, and socs3 proteins in il-6 stimulated rheumatoid arthritis (ra)-fls cells that were either treated with tacrolimus or left untreated."}
{"title": "pretreatment with resveratrol prevents neuronal_injury and cognitive_deficits induced by perinatal_hypoxia-ischemia in rats", "abstract": "despite advances in neonatal care , hypoxic-ischemic brain injury is still a serious clinical problem , which is responsible for many cases of perinatal mortality , cerebral palsy , motor impairment and cognitive_deficits . resveratrol , a natural polyphenol with important anti-oxidant and anti-inflammatory properties , is present in grapevines , peanuts and pomegranates . the aim of the present work was to evaluate the possible neuroprotective effect of resveratrol when administered before or immediately after a hypoxic-ischemic brain event in neonatal rats by analyzing brain damage , the mitochondrial status and long-term cognitive impairment . our results indicate that pretreatment with resveratrol protects against brain damage , reducing infarct volume , preserving myelination and minimizing the astroglial reactive", "gen_abstract": "the present study investigates the neuroprotective effects of resveratrol against neuronal injury and cognitive deficits induced by perinatal hypoxia-ischemia in rats. perinatal hypoxia-ischemia is a leading cause of brain injury and cognitive impairments in neonates, and the search for effective interventions to prevent or mitigate the damage is ongoing. resveratrol, a natural polyphenolic compound found in various plants, has been reported to have antioxidant, anti-inflammatory, and neuroprotective properties. in this study, pregnant rats were treated with resveratrol prior to inducing perinatal hypoxia-ischemia in their offspring. the results showed that pretreatment with resveratrol significantly reduced neuronal injury and improved cognitive function in the rats. these findings suggest that resveratrol may be a potential therapeutic strategy for preventing and treating perinatal hypoxia-ischemia-induced brain injury and cognitive deficits.", "pol_abstract": "despite the progress made in neonatal care, hypoxic-ischemic brain injury remains a significant clinical issue that leads to perinatal mortality, cerebral palsy, motor impairment, and cognitive deficits. resveratrol is a natural polyphenol found in grapevines, peanuts, and pomegranates, with potent anti-oxidant and anti-inflammatory properties. this study aimed to examine whether resveratrol could provide neuroprotection when administered before or after a hypoxic-ischemic brain injury in neonatal rats. our analysis of brain damage, mitochondrial status, and long-term cognitive impairment revealed that pretreatment with resveratrol effectively guarded against brain damage, reducing infarct volume, preserving myelination, and minimizing astroglial reactivity.", "mix_abstract": "despite advancements in neonatal care, hypoxic-ischemic brain injury remains a severe clinical issue that causes perinatal mortality, cerebral palsy, motor impairment, and cognitive deficits. resveratrol is a natural polyphenol found in grapevines, peanuts, and pomegranates and has crucial antioxidant and anti-inflammatory properties. the objective of this study was to assess whether resveratrol, when given before or immediately after a hypoxic-ischemic brain injury in neonatal rats, could potentially have a neuroprotective effect by analyzing brain damage, mitochondrial status, and long-term cognitive impairment.  our results indicate that pretreatment with resveratrol protects against brain damage , reducing infarct volume , preserving myelination and minimizing the astroglial reactive"}
{"title": "cancer risk assessment of ethyl_carbamate in alcoholic beverages from brazil with special consideration to the spirits cacha\u00e7a and tiquira", "abstract": "background ethyl_carbamate ( ec ) is a multi-site carcinogen in experimental animals and probably carcinogenic to humans ( iarc group 2a ) . traces of ec below health-relevant ranges naturally occur in several fermented foods and beverages , while higher concentrations above 1 mg/l are regularly detected in only certain spirits derived from cyanogenic plants . in brazil this concerns the sugarcane spirit cacha\u00e7a and the manioc ( cassava ) spirit tiquira , which both regularly exceed the national ec limit of 0.15 mg/l . this study aims to estimate human exposure in brazil and provide a quantitative risk assessment .", "gen_abstract": "this study aimed to assess the cancer risk associated with the consumption of ethyl carbamate (ec) in alcoholic beverages from brazil, with a particular focus on the spirits cacha\u00e7a and tiquira. using a probabilistic approach, the estimated daily intake of ec was calculated based on consumption data and ec levels in samples of these two spirits, as well as beer and wine. the cancer risk was then assessed using the margin of exposure approach, which considers the ratio between the estimated daily intake of ec and the benchmark dose associated with cancer risk. the results suggest that the cancer risk associated with ec intake from cacha\u00e7a and tiquira is relatively low, although there is a potential for increased risk among heavy drinkers. the study highlights the need for ongoing monitoring and risk assessment of ec levels in alcoholic beverages, particularly those with high consumption rates in brazil.", "pol_abstract": "the following is a revised version of the abstract that maintains the original meaning: \n\nethyl carbamate (ec) is a known carcinogen in animals and is classified as probably carcinogenic to humans by the international agency for research on cancer (iarc group 2a). while trace amounts of ec naturally occur in various fermented foods and beverages below health-relevant levels, concentrations exceeding 1 mg/l are commonly found in specific spirits made from cyanogenic plants. in brazil, this includes cacha\u00e7a and tiquira, both of which consistently surpass the national ec limit of 0.15 mg/l. this study seeks to evaluate the level of human exposure to ec in brazil and conduct a quantitative risk assessment.", "mix_abstract": "revised: ethyl carbamate (ec) is a carcinogen that affects multiple sites in experimental animals and is likely carcinogenic to humans (classified as group 2a by the international agency for research on cancer).  traces of ec below health-relevant ranges naturally occur in several fermented foods and beverages , while higher concentrations above 1 mg/l are regularly detected in only certain spirits derived from cyanogenic plants  \n\nthe spirits made from sugarcane, known as cacha\u00e7a, and manioc, also called cassava, regularly surpass the national ec limit of 0.15 mg/l in brazil. the objective of this study is to evaluate the potential risk to individuals in brazil through an estimation of human exposure and a quantitative risk assessment."}
{"title": "chronic_glucolipotoxic_conditions in pancreatic_islets impair insulin secretion due to dysregulated calcium dynamics , glucose responsiveness and mitochondrial activity", "abstract": "background in the progression towards diabetes , glucolipotoxicity is one of the main causes of pancreatic beta cell pathology . the aim of this study was to examine the in vitro effects of chronic_glucolipotoxic_conditions on cellular responses in pancreatic_islets , including glucose and fat metabolism , calcium mobilization , insulin secretion and insulin content . results exposure of islets to chronic_glucolipotoxic_conditions decreased glucose stimulated insulin secretion in vitro . reduced protein levels of glut2/slc2a2 , and decreased glucokinase and pyruvate carboxylase mrna levels indicated a significant lowering in glucose sensing . concomitantly , both fatty acid uptake and triglyceride accumulation increased significantly while fatty acid oxidation decreased .", "gen_abstract": "\n\nthe prevalence of type 2 diabetes continues to rise worldwide, and emerging evidence suggests that chronic glucolipotoxic conditions in pancreatic islets play a critical role in the development of this disease. in this context, the dysregulated calcium dynamics, glucose responsiveness, and mitochondrial activity in pancreatic islets are likely to be key contributors to impaired insulin secretion. this abstract presents a comprehensive review of the current state of knowledge on the mechanisms underlying the detrimental effects of chronic glucolipotoxic conditions on pancreatic islet function, highlighting the key molecular and cellular pathways involved. we discuss the implications of these findings for the development of new therapeutic approaches for the treatment of type 2 diabetes, with a particular focus on the potential for targeting calcium dynamics, glucose responsiveness, and mitochondrial activity in pancreatic islets to improve insulin secretion and glycemic control.", "pol_abstract": "in the context of diabetes progression, glucolipotoxicity is a major contributor to pancreatic beta cell pathology. this study aimed to investigate the effects of chronic glucolipotoxic conditions on various cellular responses in pancreatic islets, such as glucose and fat metabolism, calcium mobilization, insulin secretion, and insulin content. the results showed that exposure of islets to chronic glucolipotoxic conditions led to a decrease in glucose-stimulated insulin secretion in vitro. additionally, reduced protein levels of glut2/slc2a2, as well as decreased mrna levels of glucokinase and pyruvate carboxylase, indicated a significant reduction in glucose sensing. moreover, there was a significant increase in both fatty acid uptake and triglyceride accumulation, while fatty acid oxidation decreased.", "mix_abstract": "background: in the progression towards diabetes, glucolipotoxicity is considered one of the primary causes of pancreatic beta cell pathology.  the aim of this study was to examine the in vitro effects of chronic_glucolipotoxic_conditions on cellular responses in pancreatic_islets , including glucose and fat metabolism , calcium mobilization , insulin secretion and insulin content  the experiment showed that exposing islets to chronic glucolipotoxic conditions led to a decrease in insulin secretion in vitro when glucose was introduced. this decrease was attributed to a significant reduction in glucose sensing, as evidenced by decreased levels of glut2/slc2a2 protein, as well as reduced mrna levels of glucokinase and pyruvate carboxylase. furthermore, the study found that the uptake of fatty acids and the accumulation of triglycerides increased significantly, while fatty acid oxidation decreased."}
{"title": "virtual screening of specific insulin-like_growth_factor_1_receptor ( igf1r ) inhibitors from the national cancer institute ( nci ) molecular database", "abstract": "insulin-like_growth_factor_1_receptor ( igf1r ) is an attractive drug target for cancer therapy and research on igf1r inhibitors has had success in clinical trials . a particular challenge in the development of specific igf1r inhibitors is interference from insulin receptor ( ir ) , which has a nearly identical sequence . a few potent inhibitors that are selective for igf1r have been discovered experimentally with the aid of computational methods . however , studies on the rapid identification of igf1r-selective inhibitors using virtual screening and confidence-level inspections of ligands that show different interactions with igf1r and ir in docking analysis are rare .", "gen_abstract": "this study aimed to identify specific inhibitors for the insulin-like growth factor 1 receptor (igf1r) through virtual screening of the national cancer institute (nci) molecular database. using a combination of computational methods, a set of potential compounds were identified and further evaluated for their binding affinity and potential biological activity against igf1r. the results showed several promising candidates with strong binding affinity and potential inhibitory activity, suggesting their potential as therapeutic agents for cancer treatment. the findings of this study provide a basis for further experimental validation and development of igf1r inhibitors.", "pol_abstract": "the development of specific inhibitors for insulin-like growth factor 1 receptor (igf1r) has shown promise in cancer therapy, although it is hindered by interference from the almost identical insulin receptor (ir). while some potent igf1r-specific inhibitors have been discovered using computational methods, there are few studies on the rapid identification of these inhibitors through virtual screening and confidence-level inspections of ligand interactions in docking analysis that differentiate between igf1r and ir.", "mix_abstract": "the potential of insulin-like growth factor 1 receptor (igf1r) as a drug target in cancer treatment has been well-established, and clinical trials exploring igf1r inhibitors have been successful. however, the development of selective igf1r inhibitors has been hindered by interference from the insulin receptor (ir), which shares a nearly identical sequence. nonetheless, computational methods have aided in the experimental discovery of a few potent inhibitors that exhibit selectivity towards igf1r.  however , studies on the rapid identification of igf1r-selective inhibitors using virtual screening and confidence-level inspections of ligands that show different interactions with igf1r and ir in docking analysis are rare"}
{"title": "comparing efficacy of lamivudine , adefovir_dipivoxil , telbivudine , and entecavir in treating nucleoside analogues na\u00efve for hbeag-negative hepatitis_b with medium hepatitis_b virus ( hbv ) dna levels", "abstract": "background the antiviral effect of hbv in different nucleos ( t ) ide analogues is still not well known . this study was conducted to compare the effectiveness of lamivudine ( lmv ) , adefovir_dipivoxil ( adv ) , telbivudine ( ldt ) , and entecavir ( etv ) monotherapy in chronic hbeag-negative hepatitis_b patients with medium load of hbv dna . material/methods the effective data of 207 patients treated by lmv ( n=43 ) , adv ( n=57 ) , ldt ( n=54 ) or etv ( n=53 ) were collected and analyzed during 144-week follow-up by retrospective analysis .", "gen_abstract": "this study aimed to compare the efficacy of four nucleoside analogue treatments, lamivudine, adefovir dipivoxil, telbivudine, and entecavir, in treating hbeag-negative hepatitis b with medium hbv dna levels in nucleoside analogue-na\u00efve patients. a systematic review and meta-analysis of randomized controlled trials were conducted to evaluate the virological response, serological response, and adverse events associated with each treatment. the results showed that entecavir and telbivudine were more effective in achieving virological response and serological response compared to lamivudine and adefovir dipivoxil. however, entecavir was associated with a higher risk of adverse events than the other treatments. this study provides valuable information for clinicians in selecting appropriate treatment options for hbeag-negative hepatitis b patients with medium hbv dna levels who are nucleoside analogue-na\u00efve.", "pol_abstract": "background:\nthe efficacy of various nucleoside analogues in treating hbv remains unclear. this study aimed to compare the effectiveness of lamivudine (lmv), adefovir dipivoxil (adv), telbivudine (ldt), and entecavir (etv) monotherapy in treating chronic hbeag-negative hepatitis b patients with moderate hbv dna levels.\n\nmaterials and methods:\na retrospective analysis was conducted on 207 patients who were treated with lmv (n=43), adv (n=57), ldt (n=54), or etv (n=53) for a duration of 144 weeks. the collected data was then analyzed for effectiveness.\n\nnote: the changes made are mainly related to grammar, punctuation, and sentence structure for readability and clarity. the meaning of the original text has been preserved.", "mix_abstract": "background:\nthe efficacy of various nucleos(t)ide analogues in treating hbv viral infections remains poorly understood. the objective of this study was to compare the antiviral effectiveness of four monotherapies, namely lamivudine (lmv), adefovir_dipivoxil (adv), telbivudine (ldt), and entecavir (etv), in patients with chronic hbeag-negative hepatitis b and a medium hbv dna load.\n\nmaterial/methods:\na retrospective analysis was conducted on data from 207 patients who received lmv (n=43), adv (n=57), ldt (n=54), or etv (n=53) monotherapy. the effectiveness of treatment was assessed by analyzing the data over a 144-week follow-up period."}
{"title": "kaempferol enhances cisplatin 's effect on ovarian_cancer cells through promoting apoptosis caused by down regulation of cmyc", "abstract": "background ovarian_cancer is one of the most significant malignancies in the western world . studies showed that ovarian_cancers tend to grow resistance to cisplatin treatment . therefore , new approaches are needed in ovarian_cancer treatment . kaempferol is a dietary flavonoid that is widely distributed in fruits and vegetables , and epidemiology studies have revealed a protective effect of kaempferol against ovarian_cancer risk . our early studies also found that kaempferol is effective in reducing vascular endothelial growth factor ( vegf ) expression in ovarian_cancer cells . in this study , we investigated kaempferol 's effects on sensitizing ovarian_cancer cell growth in response to cisplatin treatment .", "gen_abstract": "\n\nthis study investigates the potential synergistic effects of kaempferol and cisplatin on ovarian cancer cells. the research found that kaempferol enhances the therapeutic effect of cisplatin on ovarian cancer cells by promoting apoptosis, which is a process that leads to cell death. this effect is achieved by down-regulating the expression of the cmyc gene, which is known to play a role in the growth and proliferation of cancer cells. the results suggest that the combination of kaempferol and cisplatin may be a promising strategy for the treatment of ovarian cancer, and provide a potential avenue for the development of more effective therapies against this disease.", "pol_abstract": "the prevalence of ovarian cancer as a malignant disease is significant in western countries, and it has been observed that ovarian cancers often develop resistance to cisplatin treatment. as a result, new treatment approaches are required for ovarian cancer. kaempferol, a dietary flavonoid found in fruits and vegetables, has been shown to have a protective effect against ovarian cancer risk in epidemiological studies. our preliminary research also demonstrated that kaempferol reduces the expression of vascular endothelial growth factor (vegf) in ovarian cancer cells. in this study, we investigated whether kaempferol could sensitize ovarian cancer cell growth in response to cisplatin treatment.", "mix_abstract": "background: ovarian cancer is a significant malignancy in the western world. studies have shown that ovarian cancers tend to develop resistance to cisplatin treatment. therefore, new approaches are needed in ovarian cancer treatment. kaempferol is a dietary flavonoid widely distributed in fruits and vegetables. epidemiological studies have revealed a protective effect of kaempferol against ovarian cancer risk. our early studies also found that kaempferol is effective in reducing vascular endothelial growth factor (vegf) expression in ovarian cancer cells.  in this study , we investigated kaempferol 's effects on sensitizing ovarian_cancer cell growth in response to cisplatin treatment"}
{"title": "depression is associated with repeat emergency_department visits in patients with non-specific abdominal_pain", "abstract": "introduction : patients with abdominal_pain often return multiple times despite no definitive diagnosis . our objective was to determine if repeat emergency_department ( ed ) use among patients with non-specific abdominal_pain might be associated with a diagnosis of moderate to severe depressive disorder . methods : we screened 987 ed patients for major depression during weekday daytime hours from june 2011 through november 2011 using a validated depression screening tool , the phq-9 . each subject was classified as either no depression , mild depression or moderate/severe depression based on the screening tool . within this group , we identified 83 patients with non-specific abdominal_pain by either primary or secondary diagnosis .", "gen_abstract": "the aim of this study was to investigate the association between depression and repeat emergency department (ed) visits in patients with non-specific abdominal pain. a retrospective analysis was conducted on the medical records of patients who presented to the ed with non-specific abdominal pain over a two-year period. the results showed that patients with depression were more likely to have repeat ed visits for non-specific abdominal pain than those without depression. furthermore, the severity of depression was positively correlated with the frequency of repeat ed visits. these findings highlight the importance of screening for depression in patients with non-specific abdominal pain, as addressing depression may reduce the need for repeat ed visits and improve overall patient outcomes.", "pol_abstract": "\n\nbackground: patients experiencing abdominal pain frequently return to the emergency department (ed) even without receiving a clear diagnosis. the aim of this study was to investigate whether patients with non-specific abdominal pain who visit the ed repeatedly may have moderate to severe depressive disorder.\n\nmethods: we conducted a screening of 987 ed patients during weekday daytime hours from june 2011 to november 2011, using the validated depression screening tool, phq-9, to identify major depression. based on the screening tool, each subject was categorized as having no depression, mild depression, or moderate/severe depression. among these patients, we identified 83 cases with non-specific abdominal pain as either a primary or secondary diagnosis.\n\nnote: the abstract has been revised to enhance readability and simplify the language. the original meaning of the text has been preserved.", "mix_abstract": "introduction: patients experiencing abdominal pain often visit the emergency department (ed) multiple times without receiving a definitive diagnosis. the objective of this study was to determine if patients with non-specific abdominal pain who frequently return to the ed have a higher likelihood of being diagnosed with moderate to severe depressive disorder.\n\nmethods: from june 2011 to november 2011, we screened 987 ed patients for major depression during weekday daytime hours using a validated depression screening tool, the patient health questionnaire-9 (phq-9). each subject was classified as having no depression, mild depression, or moderate/severe depression based on their screening results.  within this group , we identified 83 patients with non-specific abdominal_pain by either primary or secondary diagnosis"}
{"title": "esophageal doppler-guided fluid management decreases blood lactate levels in multiple-trauma patients : a randomized controlled trial", "abstract": "introduction esophageal doppler was confirmed as a useful non-invasive tool for management of fluid replacement in elective surgery . the aim of this study was to assess the effect of early optimization of intravascular volume using esophageal doppler on blood lactate levels and organ dysfunction development in comparison with standard hemodynamic management in multiple-trauma patients . methods this was a randomized controlled trial . multiple-trauma patients with blood loss of more than 2,000 ml admitted to the intensive care unit ( icu ) were randomly assigned to the protocol group with esophageal doppler monitoring and to the control group . fluid resuscitation in the doppler group was guided for the first 12 hours of icu stay according to the protocol based on data obtained by esophageal doppler , whereas control patients were managed", "gen_abstract": "\n\nthis randomized controlled trial aimed to investigate the effects of esophageal doppler-guided fluid management on blood lactate levels in multiple-trauma patients. the study included a total of x participants who were randomly assigned to either a control group or an intervention group. the intervention group received fluid management guided by esophageal doppler monitoring, while the control group received standard fluid management. the results showed a significant decrease in blood lactate levels in the intervention group compared to the control group. these findings suggest that esophageal doppler-guided fluid management may be an effective strategy for improving lactate levels in multiple-trauma patients.", "pol_abstract": "the usefulness of esophageal doppler as a non-invasive tool for fluid replacement management in elective surgery has been confirmed. in this study, the objective was to evaluate the impact of early optimization of intravascular volume using esophageal doppler compared to standard hemodynamic management on blood lactate levels and the development of organ dysfunction in multiple-trauma patients. a randomized controlled trial was conducted where multiple-trauma patients with blood loss greater than 2,000 ml admitted to the icu were randomly assigned to either the protocol group with esophageal doppler monitoring or the control group. the protocol group's fluid resuscitation was guided based on data obtained by esophageal doppler for the first 12 hours of icu stay, while the control group received standard management.", "mix_abstract": "introduction: esophageal doppler has been confirmed as a useful non-invasive tool for managing fluid replacement in elective surgery. the aim of this study was to assess the effect of early optimization of intravascular volume using esophageal doppler on blood lactate levels and the development of organ dysfunction compared to standard hemodynamic management in multiple-trauma patients.  methods this was a randomized controlled trial  patients who experienced multiple traumas and had a blood loss exceeding 2,000 ml upon admission to the intensive care unit (icu) were assigned at random to either the protocol group, which utilized esophageal doppler monitoring, or to the control group.  fluid resuscitation in the doppler group was guided for the first 12 hours of icu stay according to the protocol based on data obtained by esophageal doppler , whereas control patients were managed"}
{"title": "carbon-nanoparticle-triggered acute lung_inflammation and its resolution are not altered in ppar\u03b3-defective ( p465l ) mice", "abstract": "background the alveolar macrophage ( am ) - first line of innate immune defence against pathogens and environmental irritants - constitutively expresses peroxisome-proliferator activated receptor \u03b3 ( ppar\u03b3 ) . ppar\u03b3 ligand-induced activation keeps the am quiescent , and thereby contributes to combat invaders and resolve inflammation by augmenting the phagocytosis of apoptotic neutrophils and inhibiting an excessive expression of inflammatory genes . because of these presumed anti-inflammatory functions of ppar\u03b3 we tested the hypothesis , whether reduced functional receptor availability in mutant mice resulted in increased cellular and molecular inflammatory response during acute inflammation and/or in an impairment of its resolution .", "gen_abstract": "this study investigates the effect of ppar\u03b3 deficiency on carbon nanoparticle (cnp)-induced acute lung inflammation and its resolution. cnps are known to cause lung inflammation, which can lead to chronic respiratory diseases. ppar\u03b3 is a transcription factor that plays a critical role in regulating inflammation. in this study, mice with a specific ppar\u03b3 mutation (p465l) were exposed to cnps, and the extent of lung inflammation and its resolution was evaluated. the results show that cnp-triggered acute lung inflammation and its resolution were not altered in ppar\u03b3-defective mice compared to wild-type mice, suggesting that ppar\u03b3 may not play a significant role in the resolution of cnp-induced lung inflammation. this study provides new insights into the mechanisms underlying cnp-induced lung inflammation and may have implications for the development of therapies for respiratory diseases.", "pol_abstract": "\n\nthe alveolar macrophage (am) is the first line of defense against pathogens and environmental irritants in the innate immune system. it expresses the peroxisome-proliferator activated receptor \u03b3 (ppar\u03b3) at a basal level, and activation induced by ppar\u03b3 ligands keeps the am in a state of quiescence, which helps combat invaders and resolve inflammation by enhancing the phagocytosis of apoptotic neutrophils and inhibiting excessive expression of inflammatory genes. given these presumed anti-inflammatory effects of ppar\u03b3, we investigated whether a reduced availability of functional receptors in mutant mice would lead to increased cellular and molecular inflammatory responses during acute inflammation, or impair its resolution.", "mix_abstract": "the alveolar macrophage (am) is the first line of defense in the innate immune system against pathogens and environmental irritants. it naturally expresses the peroxisome-proliferator activated receptor \u03b3 (ppar\u03b3). the activation of ppar\u03b3 by its ligands keeps the am calm and helps combat invaders by increasing the phagocytosis of apoptotic neutrophils and reducing the expression of inflammatory genes. we aimed to investigate whether the anti-inflammatory functions of ppar\u03b3 are affected in mutant mice, leading to an increased cellular and molecular inflammatory response during acute inflammation and/or a hindrance in its resolution."}
{"title": "the role of angiogenic factors and their soluble receptors in acute_lung_injury ( ali ) / acute_respiratory_distress_syndrome ( ards ) associated with critical_illness", "abstract": "background acute lung injury ( ali ) and acute_respiratory_distress_syndrome ( ards ) are characterized by a disruption of the endothelium and alveolar epithelial barriers involving increased microvascular permeability , thus resulting in the set of protein-rich pulmonary edema . angiogenic factors and their receptors , including vascular endothelial growth factor ( vegf ) /vegf-receptor ( vegfr ) and the angiopoietin ( ang ) /tie2 signaling pathways , play pivotal roles in both angiogenesis and microvascular permeability . the aim of the study was to assess the relationship between angiogenic factors , their soluble receptors and ali/ards associated with critically ill patients , including sepsis , severe trauma , and post-cardiac arrest syndrome ( pcas ) .", "gen_abstract": "\n\nacute lung injury (ali) and acute respiratory distress syndrome (ards) are severe respiratory disorders that are frequently associated with critical illness. the pathogenesis of these conditions involves a complex interplay of inflammatory and angiogenic factors, including both angiogenic factors and their soluble receptors. this review aims to explore the current understanding of the role of angiogenic factors and their soluble receptors in the development and progression of ali/ards associated with critical illness. specifically, the review will discuss the regulation of angiogenic factor expression, the mechanisms by which these factors contribute to the pathogenesis of ali/ards, and the potential utility of targeting angiogenic factors and their receptors in the treatment of these conditions. the review will also highlight some of the current challenges in this field and outline potential avenues for future research. overall, this review will provide insights into the pathogenesis of ali/ards and suggest potential new avenues for the development of targeted therapies.", "pol_abstract": "\n\nthe disruption of the endothelium and alveolar epithelial barriers in acute lung injury (ali) and acute respiratory distress syndrome (ards) results in increased microvascular permeability and protein-rich pulmonary edema. the angiopoietin (ang)/tie2 signaling pathways and vascular endothelial growth factor (vegf)/vegf-receptor (vegfr) are important in angiogenesis and microvascular permeability. this study aimed to investigate the association between angiogenic factors, their soluble receptors, and ali/ards in critically ill patients with conditions such as sepsis, severe trauma, and post-cardiac arrest syndrome (pcas).", "mix_abstract": "background: \n\nacute lung injury (ali) and acute respiratory distress syndrome (ards) are conditions characterized by disruption of the endothelium and alveolar epithelial barriers, resulting in increased microvascular permeability and the development of protein-rich pulmonary edema. angiogenic factors and their receptors, including vascular endothelial growth factor (vegf)/vegf-receptor (vegfr) and the angiopoietin (ang)/tie2 signaling pathways, play pivotal roles in both angiogenesis and microvascular permeability. the aim of this study was to assess the relationship between angiogenic factors, their soluble receptors, and ali/ards in critically ill patients, including those with sepsis, severe trauma, and post-cardiac arrest syndrome (pcas)."}
{"title": "erythropoietin attenuates cardiac_dysfunction by increasing myocardial_angiogenesis and inhibiting interstitial_fibrosis in diabetic rats", "abstract": "background recent studies revealed that erythropoietin ( epo ) has tissue-protective effects in the heart by increasing vascular endothelial growth factor ( vegf ) expression and attenuating myocardial fibrosis in ischemia models . in this study , we investigated the effect of epo on ventricular remodeling and blood vessel growth in diabetic rats . methods male sd rats were randomly divided into 3 groups : control rats , streptozotocin ( stz ) -induced diabetic rats , and diabetic rats treated with 1000 u/kg epo by subcutaneous injection once per week . twelve weeks later , echocardiography was conducted , and blood samples were collected for counting of peripheral blood endothelial progenitor cells ( epcs ) .", "gen_abstract": "diabetes is a well-known risk factor for the development of cardiac dysfunction, which is associated with interstitial fibrosis and reduced myocardial angiogenesis. erythropoietin (epo) is a hormone that has been shown to have beneficial effects on the cardiovascular system. in this study, we investigated the effects of epo on cardiac dysfunction in diabetic rats. our results show that epo treatment attenuated cardiac dysfunction by increasing myocardial angiogenesis and inhibiting interstitial fibrosis. these findings suggest that epo may be a promising therapeutic option for the treatment of cardiac dysfunction in diabetic patients.", "pol_abstract": "\n\nbackground:\nrecent studies have shown that erythropoietin (epo) can protect the heart tissue by increasing vascular endothelial growth factor (vegf) expression and reducing myocardial fibrosis in ischemia models. the current study aimed to investigate the impact of epo on ventricular remodeling and blood vessel growth in diabetic rats.\n\nmethods:\nmale sd rats were divided randomly into three groups: control rats, streptozotocin (stz)-induced diabetic rats, and diabetic rats treated with 1000 u/kg epo through subcutaneous injection once per week. after 12 weeks, echocardiography was performed, and blood samples were collected for counting peripheral blood endothelial progenitor cells (epcs).", "mix_abstract": "background recent studies revealed that erythropoietin ( epo ) has tissue-protective effects in the heart by increasing vascular endothelial growth factor ( vegf ) expression and attenuating myocardial fibrosis in ischemia models  the objective of this research was to examine the impact of epo on ventricular remodeling and blood vessel development in diabetic rats. the study was conducted using male sd rats divided into three groups: control rats, streptozotocin (stz)-induced diabetic rats, and diabetic rats treated with 1000 u/kg epo administered once per week through subcutaneous injection. after 12 weeks, echocardiography was performed, and blood samples were collected to count peripheral blood endothelial progenitor cells (epcs)."}
{"title": "ferric_carboxymaltose-mediated attenuation of doxorubicin-induced cardiotoxicity in an iron deficiency rat model", "abstract": "since anthracycline-induced cardiotoxicity ( aic ) , a complication of anthracycline-based chemotherapies , is thought to involve iron , concerns exist about using iron for anaemia treatment in anthracycline-receiving cancer patients . this study evaluated how intravenous ferric_carboxymaltose ( fcm ) modulates the influence of iron_deficiency anaemia ( ida ) and doxorubicin ( 3\u20135 mg per kg body weight [ bw ] ) on oxidative/nitrosative stress , inflammation , and cardiorenal function in spontaneously hypertensive stroke-prone ( shr-sp ) rats . fcm was given as repeated small or single total dose ( 15 mg iron per kg bw ) , either concurrent with or three days after doxorubicin .", "gen_abstract": "\n\nthis study investigates the potential protective effect of ferric carboxymaltose (fcm) against doxorubicin-induced cardiotoxicity in an iron deficiency rat model. doxorubicin is a widely used chemotherapy drug, but its clinical use is limited due to the development of cardiotoxicity. iron deficiency is prevalent among cancer patients and can exacerbate the cardiotoxic effects of doxorubicin. fcm is an iron supplement that has been shown to improve iron deficiency and may have cardioprotective properties. the results of this study suggest that fcm treatment attenuated doxorubicin-induced cardiotoxicity in the iron deficiency rat model, potentially through the reduction of oxidative stress and inflammation. these findings highlight the potential therapeutic benefits of fcm supplementation in cancer patients receiving doxorubicin chemotherapy.", "pol_abstract": "the aim of this study was to examine the effects of intravenous ferric carboxymaltose (fcm) on oxidative/nitrosative stress, inflammation, and cardiorenal function in spontaneously hypertensive stroke-prone (shr-sp) rats with iron-deficiency anemia (ida) and receiving doxorubicin (3-5 mg per kg body weight [bw]). anthracycline-induced cardiotoxicity (aic) is a concern in cancer patients receiving anthracycline-based chemotherapies due to the involvement of iron, which raises concerns about the use of iron for anemia treatment in these patients. fcm was administered as a repeated small or single total dose (15 mg iron per kg bw) either concurrently with or three days after doxorubicin to assess its impact.", "mix_abstract": "iron treatment for anemia in cancer patients receiving anthracycline-based chemotherapies is a concern due to the involvement of iron in anthracycline-induced cardiotoxicity (aic). this study investigated the impact of intravenous ferric carboxymaltose (fcm) on oxidative/nitrosative stress, inflammation, and cardiorenal function in spontaneously hypertensive stroke-prone (shr-sp) rats with iron-deficiency anemia (ida) and treated with doxorubicin (3-5 mg/kg body weight [bw]). fcm was administered either as repeated small doses or a single total dose (15 mg iron per kg bw), either concurrently with or three days after doxorubicin."}
{"title": "co-existence of acute_myeloid_leukemia_with_multilineage_dysplasia and epstein-barr_virus-associated t-cell_lymphoproliferative_disorder in a patient with rheumatoid_arthritis : a case report", "abstract": "rheumatoid_arthritis ( ra ) is an autoimmune disease mediated by inflammatory processes mainly at the joints . recently , awareness of epstein-barr_virus ( ebv ) -associated t-cell_lymphoproliferative_disorder ( t-lpd ) has been heightened for its association with methotraxate usage in ra patients . in the contrary , acute_myeloid_leukemia_with_multilineage_dysplasia ( aml-mld ) has never been documented to be present concomitantly with the above two conditions . in this report we present a case of an autopsy-proven co-existence of aml-mld and ebv-associated t-lpd in a patient with ra .", "gen_abstract": "\n\nthis case report presents a rare occurrence of co-existing acute myeloid leukemia (aml) with multilineage dysplasia and epstein-barr virus-associated t-cell lymphoproliferative disorder (ebv-t-lpd) in a patient with rheumatoid arthritis (ra). the report highlights the challenges in diagnosis and management of this complex presentation, as the patient's ra and previous treatments for it had complicated the clinical picture. the case underscores the importance of considering the possibility of multiple pathologies when assessing patients with complex medical histories, and the need for multidisciplinary collaboration to optimize patient care.", "pol_abstract": "rheumatoid arthritis (ra) is an autoimmune disease characterized by inflammatory processes that primarily affect the joints. the association between epstein-barr virus (ebv)-associated t-cell lymphoproliferative disorder (t-lpd) and methotrexate use in ra patients has recently garnered attention. conversely, no cases of acute myeloid leukemia with multilineage dysplasia (aml-mld) occurring concurrently with the aforementioned conditions have been documented. this report describes a patient with ra who was found, upon autopsy, to have both aml-mld and ebv-associated t-lpd.", "mix_abstract": "rheumatoid arthritis (ra) is an autoimmune disease primarily mediated by inflammatory processes affecting the joints.  recently , awareness of epstein-barr_virus ( ebv ) -associated t-cell_lymphoproliferative_disorder ( t-lpd ) has been heightened for its association with methotraxate usage in ra patients  \n\nin contrast, there have been no prior reports documenting the co-occurrence of acute myeloid leukemia with multilineage dysplasia (aml-mld) and the above-mentioned conditions. however, we present a case of a patient with ra who was confirmed to have both aml-mld and ebv-associated t-lpd upon autopsy."}
{"title": "effect of obesity on alveolar_bone_loss in experimental periodontitis in wistar rats", "abstract": "obesity has been linked to higher inflammatory status and periodontal breakdown . objective the purpose of this study was to investigate the effect of obesity on alveolar bone_loss in experimental periodontitis in rats . material and methods twenty-four female wistar rats were randomly divided into two groups : obese ( n=13 ) , which were fed with `` cafeteria diet '' ( caf diet - high amounts of sucrose and fat ) for 90 days in order to gain weight , and non-obese ( n=11 ) regularly fed rats . ligature-induced experimental periodontitis was created in all animals . body weight differed statistically between obese and non-obese groups ( 277.59 and 223.35 g , respectively ) at the moment of the ligature", "gen_abstract": "this study aimed to investigate the effect of obesity on alveolar bone loss in experimental periodontitis in wistar rats. forty-eight rats were divided into two groups: a control group fed a normal diet and an experimental group fed a high-fat diet to induce obesity. after 12 weeks, both groups were induced with periodontitis. the results showed that the experimental group had a higher level of alveolar bone loss compared to the control group. the findings suggest that obesity may have a significant impact on the development and progression of periodontitis and subsequent alveolar bone loss. these results could have implications for the prevention and management of periodontitis in obese individuals.", "pol_abstract": "the link between obesity and increased inflammatory status and periodontal breakdown is well-established. the aim of this study was to explore the impact of obesity on alveolar bone loss in rats with experimental periodontitis. a total of 24 female wistar rats were divided into two groups: obese (n=13), which were fed a high-sugar and high-fat diet (cafeteria diet) for 90 days to induce weight gain, and non-obese (n=11) rats fed a regular diet. all animals were subjected to ligature-induced experimental periodontitis. at the time of ligature, the obese group weighed statistically more than the non-obese group (277.59 g versus 223.35 g, respectively).", "mix_abstract": "higher inflammatory status and periodontal breakdown have been found to be associated with obesity.  objective the purpose of this study was to investigate the effect of obesity on alveolar bone_loss in experimental periodontitis in rats  material and methods:\n\ntwenty-four female wistar rats were randomly assigned into two groups: obese (n=13), which were fed with a \"cafeteria diet\" (caf diet - high amounts of sucrose and fat) for 90 days to induce weight gain, and non-obese (n=11) rats that were regularly fed. \n\nto induce experimental periodontitis, ligatures were placed on all animals. body weight was measured and statistically analyzed between the obese and non-obese groups, with the obese group having a mean weight of 277.59 and the non-obese group having a mean weight of 223. 35 g , respectively ) at the moment of the ligature"}
{"title": "cytotoxicity and cell cycle arrest induced by andrographolide lead to programmed cell death of mda-mb-231 breast_cancer cell line", "abstract": "background breast_cancer is considered as an increasing major life-threatening concern among the malignancies encountered globally in females . traditional therapy is far from satisfactory due to drug resistance and various side effects , thus a search for complementary/alternative medicines from natural sources with lesser side effects is being emphasized . andrographis paniculata , an oriental , traditional medicinal herb commonly available in asian countries , has a long history of treating a variety of diseases , such as respiratory infection , fever , bacterial dysentery , diarrhea , inflammation etc . extracts of this plant showed a wide spectrum of therapeutic effects , such as anti-bacterial , anti-malarial , anti-viral and anti-carcinogenic properties .", "gen_abstract": "\n\nbreast cancer is a major health issue that has devastating effects on individuals and society as a whole. andrographolide is a natural compound that has been shown to exhibit anticancer properties in several cancer cell lines. this study aimed to investigate the effects of andrographolide on mda-mb-231 breast cancer cells. our results demonstrated that andrographolide treatment caused cytotoxicity and induced cell cycle arrest in mda-mb-231 cells. furthermore, andrographolide induced programmed cell death, as evidenced by dna fragmentation and annexin v-fitc/pi staining. our findings suggest that andrographolide may be a promising candidate for breast cancer therapy, and further studies are warranted to explore its potential as a novel anticancer agent.", "pol_abstract": "breast cancer is a significant and growing concern for women worldwide. conventional therapies for the disease have proven unsatisfactory due to drug resistance and undesirable side effects. as a result, there is a push to find complementary or alternative medicines sourced from nature with fewer side effects. andrographis paniculata is a traditional medicinal herb commonly found in asian countries with a history of treating various illnesses, including respiratory infections, fevers, bacterial dysentery, diarrhea, and inflammation. extracts from this plant have exhibited a broad range of therapeutic effects, including anti-bacterial, anti-malarial, anti-viral, and anti-carcinogenic properties.", "mix_abstract": "background breast_cancer is considered as an increasing major life-threatening concern among the malignancies encountered globally in females  \n\nconventional therapy has proven to be unsatisfactory due to drug resistance and adverse effects. consequently, there is a growing emphasis on finding complementary or alternative medicines derived from natural sources, which have fewer side effects. andrographis paniculata is a traditional medicinal herb that is widely available in asian countries. it has been used for centuries to treat various ailments such as respiratory infections, fever, bacterial dysentery, diarrhea, and inflammation. extracts from this plant have shown a broad range of therapeutic effects, including anti-bacterial, anti-malarial, anti-viral, and anti-carcinogenic properties."}
{"title": "four-day antithrombin therapy does not seem to attenuate_hypercoagulability in patients suffering from sepsis", "abstract": "introduction sepsis activates the coagulation system and frequently causes hypercoagulability , which is not detected by routine coagulation tests . a reliable method to evaluate hypercoagulability is thromboelastography ( teg ) , but this has not so far been used to investigate sepsis-induced hypercoagulability . antithrombin ( at ) in plasma of septic patients is decreased , and administration of at may therefore reduce the acquired hypercoagulability . not clear , however , is to what extent supraphysiologic plasma levels of at decrease the acute hypercoagulability in septic patients . the present study investigates the coagulation profile of septic patients before and during four day high-dose at therapy .", "gen_abstract": "\n\nthis study aimed to investigate the effect of a four-day antithrombin therapy on hypercoagulability in patients with sepsis. the study included a total of 50 patients with sepsis, who were randomly divided into two groups: one group received antithrombin therapy, while the other group received a placebo. the results showed that the antithrombin therapy did not seem to attenuate hypercoagulability in septic patients, as measured by various biomarkers of coagulation activation. the study highlights the need for further research on alternative therapies for sepsis-associated coagulopathy.", "pol_abstract": "\n\nthe coagulation system is activated during sepsis, leading to hypercoagulability, which is not detectable by routine tests. thromboelastography (teg) is a reliable method to assess hypercoagulability, but its use in sepsis-induced hypercoagulability has not been explored. septic patients exhibit decreased levels of antithrombin (at) in plasma, and administering at may reduce acquired hypercoagulability. the extent to which supraphysiological levels of at decrease acute hypercoagulability in septic patients is unclear. this study investigates the coagulation profile of septic patients before and during four days of high-dose at therapy.", "mix_abstract": "sepsis activates the coagulation system and often leads to hypercoagulability, which cannot be detected through routine coagulation tests. thromboelastography (teg) is a reliable method to assess hypercoagulability, but it has not been utilized for investigating sepsis-induced hypercoagulability. plasma antithrombin (at) levels in septic patients are reduced, and the administration of at may potentially reduce the acquired hypercoagulability. it is unclear, however, to what extent supraphysiologic levels of at in plasma can decrease acute hypercoagulability in septic patients.  the present study investigates the coagulation profile of septic patients before and during four day high-dose at therapy"}
{"title": "choline_kinase_alpha and hexokinase-2 protein expression in hepatocellular_carcinoma : association with survival", "abstract": "purpose hexokinase-2 ( hk2 ) and more recently choline_kinase_alpha ( cka ) expression has been correlated with clinical outcomes in several major cancers . this study examines the protein expression of hk2 and cka in hepatocellular_carcinoma ( hcc ) in association with patient survival and other clinicopathologic parameters . methods immunohistochemical analysis for hk2 and cka expression was performed on a tissue microarray of 157 hcc tumor samples . results were analyzed in relation to clinicopathologic data from surveillance , epidemiology , and end-results program registries . mortality rates were assessed by kaplan-meier estimates and compared using log-rank tests . predictors of overall survival were assessed using proportional hazards regression .", "gen_abstract": "\n\nhepatocellular carcinoma (hcc) is a common type of liver cancer with a high mortality rate. choline kinase alpha (chka) and hexokinase-2 (hk2) are two proteins that play a critical role in cancer metabolism and are frequently overexpressed in many types of cancer, including hcc. in this study, we investigated the protein expression levels of chka and hk2 in hcc samples and their association with survival. we analyzed tissue samples from 120 hcc patients and found that high expression levels of chka and hk2 were significantly associated with poorer overall survival. these findings suggest that chka and hk2 may serve as potential biomarkers for predicting hcc prognosis and as targets for hcc therapy.", "pol_abstract": "\n\nthe aim of this study is to investigate the correlation between protein expression of hexokinase-2 (hk2) and choline_kinase_alpha (cka) in hepatocellular carcinoma (hcc), patient survival, and other clinicopathologic parameters. immunohistochemical analysis was conducted on 157 hcc tumor samples to determine the expression of hk2 and cka. the results were compared with clinicopathologic data from the surveillance, epidemiology, and end-results program registries. kaplan-meier estimates were used to evaluate mortality rates and were compared using log-rank tests. proportional hazards regression was used to assess predictors of overall survival.", "mix_abstract": "purpose hexokinase-2 ( hk2 ) and more recently choline_kinase_alpha ( cka ) expression has been correlated with clinical outcomes in several major cancers  \n\nin this research, the relationship between patient survival and clinicopathologic parameters and the protein expression of hk2 and cka in hepatocellular carcinoma (hcc) is investigated. a tissue microarray of 157 hcc tumor samples was analyzed using immunohistochemical analysis to determine hk2 and cka expression. the data obtained were analyzed in relation to clinicopathologic information from the surveillance, epidemiology, and end-results program registries. mortality rates were determined using kaplan-meier estimates and compared using log-rank tests. proportional hazards regression was used to assess overall survival predictors."}
{"title": "the intracellular_domain of cell_adhesion_molecule 1 is present in emphysematous lungs and induces lung epithelial cell apoptosis", "abstract": "background pulmonary emphysema is characterized histologically by destruction of alveolar walls and enlargement of air spaces due to lung epithelial cell apoptosis . cell_adhesion_molecule_1 ( cadm1 ) is an immunoglobulin superfamily member expressed in lung epithelial cells . cadm1 generates a membrane-associated c-terminal fragment , \u03b1ctf , through a disintegrin- and metalloprotease-10-mediated ectodomain shedding , subsequently releasing the intracellular_domain ( icd ) through \u03b3-secretase-mediated intramembrane shedding of \u03b1ctf . \u03b1ctf localizes to mitochondria and induces apoptosis in lung epithelial cells . \u03b1ctf contributes to the development and progression of emphysema as a consequence of increased cadm1 ectodomain shedding . the purpose of this study was to examine whether the icd makes a similar contribution .", "gen_abstract": "\n\nthe intracellular domain of cell adhesion molecule 1 (icam-1) has been implicated in various pathological conditions, including emphysematous lungs. in this study, we investigated the presence of icam-1 in emphysematous lungs and its effect on lung epithelial cells. our findings show that icam-1 is present in emphysematous lungs and can induce apoptosis in lung epithelial cells. this suggests that icam-1 may play a role in the pathogenesis of emphysema and could be a potential therapeutic target for the treatment of this disease. further studies are needed to elucidate the mechanisms underlying icam-1-induced apoptosis and to explore its potential as a therapeutic target.", "pol_abstract": "\n\nthe destruction of alveolar walls and enlargement of air spaces in pulmonary emphysema are caused by apoptosis of lung epithelial cells. cell adhesion molecule 1 (cadm1), expressed in lung epithelial cells, generates a membrane-associated fragment called \u03b1ctf through ectodomain shedding mediated by a disintegrin and metalloprotease-10. the intracellular domain (icd) is subsequently released through intramembrane shedding of \u03b1ctf mediated by \u03b3-secretase. \u03b1ctf is known to induce apoptosis in lung epithelial cells and contribute to the development and progression of emphysema by increasing cadm1 ectodomain shedding. the aim of this study was to investigate whether the icd has a similar effect.", "mix_abstract": "the destruction of alveolar walls and enlargement of air spaces in pulmonary emphysema is caused by apoptosis of lung epithelial cells. lung epithelial cells express cell_adhesion_molecule_1 (cadm1), which belongs to the immunoglobulin superfamily. cadm1 undergoes ectodomain shedding mediated by a disintegrin- and metalloprotease-10, generating a membrane-associated c-terminal fragment (\u03b1ctf). \u03b1ctf is further cleaved by \u03b3-secretase, releasing the intracellular domain (icd). \u03b1ctf localizes to mitochondria and induces apoptosis in lung epithelial cells. increased shedding of cadm1 ectodomain, leading to increased \u03b1ctf production, contributes to the development and progression of emphysema.  the purpose of this study was to examine whether the icd makes a similar contribution"}
{"title": "expression and clinical significance of glucose regulated proteins grp78 ( bip ) and grp94 ( gp96 ) in human adenocarcinomas of the esophagus", "abstract": "background glucose regulated proteins ( grps ) are main regulators of cellular homeostasis due to their role as molecular chaperones . moreover , the functions of grps suggest that they also may play important roles in cancer biology . in this study we investigated the glucose regulated proteins grp78 ( bip ) and grp94 ( gp96 ) in a series of human esophageal adenocarcinomas to determine their implications in cancer progression and prognosis . methods formalin-fixed , paraffin-embedded tissues of primary resected esophageal ( barrett ) adenocarcinomas ( n = 137 ) and corresponding normal tissue were investigated . mrna-gene expression levels of grp78 and grp94 were determined by quantitative real-time rt-pcr after mrna extraction .", "gen_abstract": "\n\nthis study aims to investigate the expression and clinical significance of glucose-regulated proteins (grps), specifically grp78 (bip) and grp94 (gp96), in human adenocarcinomas of the esophagus. the research is conducted through immunohistochemical analysis of tumor tissue samples collected from patients with esophageal adenocarcinoma. the results indicate that grp78 and grp94 are significantly upregulated in esophageal adenocarcinomas compared to normal esophageal tissue. additionally, higher levels of grp78 and grp94 expression are associated with worse overall survival and disease-free survival rates in patients with esophageal adenocarcinoma. these findings suggest that grp78 and grp94 may serve as potential prognostic biomarkers and therapeutic targets for esophageal adenocarcinoma.", "pol_abstract": "this study examines the potential roles of glucose regulated proteins (grps) in cancer biology, specifically focusing on grp78 (bip) and grp94 (gp96) in human esophageal adenocarcinomas. these proteins are known to regulate cellular homeostasis as molecular chaperones, but may also have implications in cancer progression and prognosis. formalin-fixed, paraffin-embedded tissues of 137 primary resected esophageal adenocarcinomas and corresponding normal tissue were examined to determine mrna-gene expression levels of grp78 and grp94 using quantitative real-time rt-pcr after mrna extraction.", "mix_abstract": "background:\nglucose-regulated proteins (grps) are key regulators of cellular homeostasis, acting as molecular chaperones. their functions suggest that they may also play important roles in cancer biology. in this study, we investigated two glucose-regulated proteins, grp78 (bip) and grp94 (gp96), in a series of human esophageal adenocarcinomas to determine their implications in cancer progression and prognosis.\n\nmethods:\nformalin-fixed, paraffin-embedded tissues of primary resected esophageal (barrett) adenocarcinomas (n = 137) and corresponding normal tissue were investigated.\n\nresults:\nthe results of our investigation suggest that grp78 and grp94 expression are associated with poor prognosis in patients with esophageal adenocarcinoma. specifically, high levels of grp78 and grp94 were found to be significantly correlated with tumor stage, lymph node involvement, and distant metastasis.\n\nconclusion:\nour findings suggest that grp78 and grp94 may serve as potential biomarkers for the diagnosis and prognosis of esophageal adenocarcinoma, and may also be therapeutic targets for the development of novel cancer treatments.  mrna-gene expression levels of grp78 and grp94 were determined by quantitative real-time rt-pcr after mrna extraction"}
{"title": "phenotypic alterations in human saphenous vein culture induced by tumor_necrosis_factor-alpha and lipoproteins : a preliminary development of an initial_atherosclerotic_plaque model", "abstract": "background atherosclerosis is a chronic progressive inflammatory disease of blood vessels particularly the arteries . the development of atherosclerotic_plaques or atherogenesis is a complex process that is influenced by cardiovascular risk factors such as vascular inflammation and dyslipidemia . this study demonstrates the ability of tumor_necrosis_factor-alpha ( tnf-\u03b1 ) and low density lipoproteins ( ldl ) to induce atherosclerotic_plaque in human saphenous vein ( hsv ) organ culture . methods normal hsv segments , from male patients who had coronary bypass graft , were cultured in dmem containing 5 % heat inactivated fetal bovine serum . tnf-\u03b1 ( 5 ng/ml ) was applied in combination with native ldl ( nldl ) or oxidized ldl ( oxldl ) at the dose of 50 \u03bcg/ml for 14", "gen_abstract": "\n\nthis study investigates the phenotypic changes induced by tumor necrosis factor-alpha and lipoproteins in human saphenous vein cultures, with the aim of developing an initial atherosclerotic plaque model. the study utilized a range of techniques to analyze the morphological and functional changes in the cultured veins, including immunohistochemistry, gene expression analysis, and functional assays. the results suggest that the combination of tumor necrosis factor-alpha and lipoproteins induces significant alterations in the phenotype of human saphenous vein cultures, with implications for the development of atherosclerotic plaques. these findings provide a basis for further research into the mechanisms underlying atherosclerosis and the development of novel therapies for the prevention and treatment of this disease.", "pol_abstract": "the following abstract describes a study on atherosclerosis, a chronic progressive inflammatory disease of blood vessels, specifically arteries. atherosclerotic plaque development is influenced by cardiovascular risk factors such as vascular inflammation and dyslipidemia. the study aimed to demonstrate the ability of tumor necrosis factor-alpha (tnf-\u03b1) and low-density lipoproteins (ldl) to induce atherosclerotic plaque in human saphenous vein (hsv) organ culture. the method involved culturing normal hsv segments from male patients who had coronary bypass graft in dmem with 5% heat-inactivated fetal bovine serum. tnf-\u03b1 at a concentration of 5 ng/ml was applied in combination with native ldl (nldl) or oxidized ldl (oxldl) at a dose of 50 \u03bcg/ml for 14 days.", "mix_abstract": "the background information is that atherosclerosis is a chronic, gradually worsening inflammatory disease that affects blood vessels, specifically the arteries. the formation of plaques, or atherogenesis, is a complicated process that is impacted by various cardiovascular risk factors, including dyslipidemia and vascular inflammation.  this study demonstrates the ability of tumor_necrosis_factor-alpha ( tnf-\u03b1 ) and low density lipoproteins ( ldl ) to induce atherosclerotic_plaque in human saphenous vein ( hsv ) organ culture  cultures were prepared using normal hsv segments obtained from male patients who underwent coronary bypass grafting. the cultures were grown in dmem supplemented with 5% heat-inactivated fetal bovine serum.  tnf-\u03b1 ( 5 ng/ml ) was applied in combination with native ldl ( nldl ) or oxidized ldl ( oxldl ) at the dose of 50 \u03bcg/ml for 14"}
{"title": "all dact ( dapper/frodo ) scaffold proteins dimerize and exhibit conserved interactions with vangl , dvl , and serine/threonine kinases", "abstract": "background the dact family of scaffold proteins was discovered by virtue of binding to dvl proteins central to wnt and planar cell polarity ( pcp ) signaling . subsequently dact proteins have been linked to a growing list of potential partners implicated in \u03b2-catenin-dependent and \u03b2-catenin-independent forms of wnt and other signaling . to clarify conserved and non-conserved roles for this protein family , we systematically compared molecular interactions of all three murine dact paralogs by co-immunoprecipitation of proteins recombinantly expressed in cultured human embryonic kidney cells . results every dact paralog readily formed complexes with the vangl , dvl , and ck1\u03b4/\u03b5 proteins of species ranging from fruit flies to humans , as well as with pka and", "gen_abstract": "the dact (dapper/frodo) scaffold proteins are a family of evolutionarily conserved proteins that play important roles in developmental signaling pathways. in this study, we investigate the interactions between different members of the dact family and several key signaling proteins, including vangl, dvl, and serine/threonine kinases. our results demonstrate that all dact scaffold proteins are capable of dimerization and exhibit conserved interactions with these signaling proteins. specifically, we identify several key residues that are critical for these interactions and demonstrate their importance in regulating downstream signaling events. these findings provide important insights into the molecular mechanisms underlying dact-mediated signaling pathways and may have implications for the development of novel therapeutic approaches targeting these pathways in human disease.", "pol_abstract": "background:\nthe dact family of scaffold proteins was initially discovered for its binding to dvl proteins, which play a central role in wnt and planar cell polarity (pcp) signaling. since then, dact proteins have been associated with an increasing number of potential partners involved in both \u03b2-catenin-dependent and \u03b2-catenin-independent forms of wnt and other signaling pathways. to better understand the conserved and non-conserved functions of this protein family, we conducted a systematic analysis of the molecular interactions of all three murine dact paralogs. specifically, we used co-immunoprecipitation to examine protein interactions of recombinantly expressed dact paralogs in cultured human embryonic kidney cells.\n\nresults:\nour study revealed that each dact paralog readily formed complexes with vangl, dvl, and ck1\u03b4/\u03b5 proteins found in species ranging from fruit flies to humans. additionally, we found that all three dact paralogs interacted with pka.", "mix_abstract": "background:\nthe dact family of scaffold proteins was discovered by their ability to bind to dvl proteins, which are central to wnt and planar cell polarity (pcp) signaling. subsequently, dact proteins have been linked to a growing list of potential partners involved in both \u03b2-catenin-dependent and \u03b2-catenin-independent forms of wnt and other signaling. in order to clarify the conserved and non-conserved roles of this protein family, we systematically compared the molecular interactions of all three murine dact paralogs by co-immunoprecipitation of proteins recombinantly expressed in cultured human embryonic kidney cells.  results every dact paralog readily formed complexes with the vangl , dvl , and ck1\u03b4/\u03b5 proteins of species ranging from fruit flies to humans , as well as with pka and"}
{"title": "a new method to simultaneously quantify the antioxidants : carotenes , xanthophylls , and vitamin a in human plasma", "abstract": "a simple and accurate reversed phase high-performance liquid chromatography coupled with diode array detector ( hplc-dad ) method for simultaneously determining and quantifying the antioxidants carotenes , xanthophylls , and retinol in human plasma is presented in this paper . compounds were extracted with hexane , a c30 column , and a mobile phase of methanol , methyl tert -butyl ether , and water were used for the separation of the compounds . a total of 8 carotenoids , 3 z - \u03b2 -carotene isomers , and 1 fat-soluble vitamin ( retinol ) were resolved within 72 min at a flow rate of 0.6 ml/min .", "gen_abstract": "\n\nthis study presents a novel method for the simultaneous quantification of antioxidants, including carotenes, xanthophylls, and vitamin a, in human plasma. the proposed method employs a high-performance liquid chromatography system coupled with a diode array detector to separate and measure the different antioxidant compounds in plasma samples. the method was validated using a set of calibration standards and was found to be highly sensitive and accurate. by providing a comprehensive analysis of multiple antioxidants in a single assay, this method has the potential to improve our understanding of the role of antioxidants in human health and disease.", "pol_abstract": "this paper presents a straightforward and precise method for using reversed phase high-performance liquid chromatography coupled with diode array detector (hplc-dad) to simultaneously detect and quantify the antioxidants carotenes, xanthophylls, and retinol in human plasma. the compounds were extracted using hexane, and a c30 column with a mobile phase containing methanol, methyl tert-butyl ether, and water was used to separate them. using a flow rate of 0.6 ml/min, a total of 8 carotenoids, 3 z-\u03b2-carotene isomers, and 1 fat-soluble vitamin (retinol) were resolved in 72 minutes.", "mix_abstract": ".8 ml/min.\n\nthis paper presents a straightforward and precise method for the simultaneous determination and quantification of antioxidants such as carotenes, xanthophylls, and retinol in human plasma, using a reversed phase high-performance liquid chromatography coupled with a diode array detector (hplc-dad). the compounds were extracted with hexane, separated using a c30 column, and a mobile phase of methanol, methyl tert-butyl ether, and water. in total, 8 carotenoids, 3 z-\u03b2-carotene isomers, and 1 fat-soluble vitamin (retinol) were successfully resolved within 72 minutes at a flow rate of 0.8 ml/min. 6 ml/min"}
{"title": "abdominal_obesity , race and chronic_kidney_disease in young adults : results from nhanes 1999-2010", "abstract": "objective kidney dysfunction in obesity may be independent of and may precede the development of hypertension and/or diabetes mellitus . we aimed to examine if abdominal_obesity is associated with early markers of ckd in a young healthy population and whether these associations differ by race and/or ethnicity . methods we analyzed data from the nhanes 1999\u20132010 for 6918 young adults ages 20\u201340 years . abdominal_obesity was defined by gender criteria of waist circumference . ckd markers included estimated glomerular filtration rate and albuminuria \u226530 mg/g . race stratified analyses were done overall and in subgroups with normal blood pressures , normoglycemia and normal insulin sensitivity .", "gen_abstract": "\n\nthis study examines the relationship between abdominal obesity, race, and chronic kidney disease (ckd) among young adults using data from the national health and nutrition examination survey (nhanes) conducted from 1999 to 2010. the study finds that abdominal obesity is a significant risk factor for ckd among young adults, and that the association between abdominal obesity and ckd varies by race. the findings suggest that addressing abdominal obesity in young adults may be an effective strategy for reducing the risk of ckd, particularly among racial and ethnic minority populations.", "pol_abstract": "\n\nthe objective of this study is to investigate whether kidney dysfunction in obesity can occur independently of or prior to the development of hypertension and/or diabetes mellitus. specifically, the study examines the association between abdominal obesity and early markers of chronic kidney disease (ckd) in a young, healthy population, and whether this association differs by race and/or ethnicity. the data from nhanes 1999-2010 for 6,918 young adults aged 20-40 years were analyzed. abdominal obesity was determined using gender-specific waist circumference criteria, and ckd markers included estimated glomerular filtration rate and albuminuria \u226530 mg/g. the analysis was stratified by race and subgroups with normal blood pressure, normoglycemia, and normal insulin sensitivity.", "mix_abstract": "the objective of this study was to investigate whether kidney dysfunction in obesity occurs independently and before the onset of hypertension and/or diabetes mellitus. the study aimed to explore the potential link between abdominal obesity and early indicators of ckd in a healthy young population, and whether this relationship varies depending on race and/or ethnicity. to accomplish this, data from nhanes 1999-2010 were analyzed, including 6918 adults aged between 20 and 40 years.  abdominal_obesity was defined by gender criteria of waist circumference  the markers for chronic kidney disease (ckd) included estimated glomerular filtration rate and albuminuria of at least 30 mg/g. analyses were stratified by race and performed on the overall population as well as subgroups with normal blood pressure, normoglycemia, and normal insulin sensitivity."}
{"title": "the effects of zoledronic_acid treatment on depression and quality of life in women with postmenopausal osteoporosis : a clinical trial study", "abstract": "background : osteoporosis affects quality of life ( qol ) and may lead to depression in women . the purpose of this study was to evaluate the effects of zoledronic_acid ( za ) treatment on depression and qol in women with postmenopausal osteoporosis ( po ) . materials and methods : a total of 88 newly diagnosed women with po were included in this study . all patients were treated with once-yearly za ( 5 mg ) . a qol questionnaire from the european foundation for osteoporosis and beck depression inventory were given to patients at baseline and at 12 months .", "gen_abstract": "\n\nthis clinical trial study aims to investigate the potential effects of zoledronic acid treatment on depression and quality of life in postmenopausal women with osteoporosis. the study design includes a randomized controlled trial where participants will receive either zoledronic acid or a placebo. the primary outcomes of interest are changes in depression symptoms and quality of life, which will be assessed at multiple time points throughout the study. the results of this study may provide valuable insights into the potential benefits of zoledronic acid treatment for improving mental health and overall quality of life in postmenopausal women with osteoporosis.", "pol_abstract": "the objective of this study was to assess the impact of zoledronic acid (za) treatment on quality of life (qol) and depression in women with postmenopausal osteoporosis (po), as this condition can significantly affect their well-being. to achieve this, a total of 88 women newly diagnosed with po were administered a once-yearly dose of za (5 mg) and were given a qol questionnaire from the european foundation for osteoporosis and the beck depression inventory at baseline and 12 months after treatment.", "mix_abstract": "background : osteoporosis affects quality of life ( qol ) and may lead to depression in women  \n\nthe purpose of this study was to evaluate the effects of zoledronic acid (za) treatment on depression and quality of life (qol) in women with postmenopausal osteoporosis (po). \n\nmaterials and methods: a total of 88 newly diagnosed women with po were included in this study. all patients were treated with once-yearly za (5 mg). a qol questionnaire from the european foundation for osteoporosis and the beck depression inventory were given to patients at baseline and at 12 months."}
{"title": "phase iii study of pasireotide long-acting release in patients with metastatic neuroendocrine_tumors and carcinoid_symptoms refractory to available somatostatin analogues", "abstract": "in a randomized , double-blind , phase iii study , we compared pasireotide long-acting release ( pasireotide lar ) with octreotide long-acting repeatable ( octreotide lar ) in managing carcinoid_symptoms refractory to first-generation somatostatin analogues . adults with carcinoid tumors of the digestive tract were randomly assigned ( 1:1 ) to receive pasireotide lar ( 60 mg ) or octreotide lar ( 40 mg ) every 28 days . primary outcome was symptom control based on frequency of bowel movements and flushing episodes . objective tumor response was a secondary outcome . progression-free survival ( pfs ) was calculated in a post hoc analysis .", "gen_abstract": "\n\nthe phase iii clinical trial investigated the efficacy and safety of pasireotide long-acting release in patients with metastatic neuroendocrine tumors and carcinoid symptoms refractory to currently available somatostatin analogues. the study enrolled a significant number of patients, and the results showed that pasireotide long-acting release improved progression-free survival and reduced the symptoms of carcinoid syndrome in patients who had previously failed to respond to other treatments. adverse events were manageable, and no new safety concerns were observed. these findings suggest that pasireotide long-acting release may be a viable treatment option for patients with metastatic neuroendocrine tumors and carcinoid symptoms refractory to available somatostatin analogues.", "pol_abstract": "a phase iii study was conducted to compare the efficacy of pasireotide lar and octreotide lar in managing carcinoid symptoms that are unresponsive to first-generation somatostatin analogues. the study was double-blind and randomized, and involved adults with carcinoid tumors of the digestive tract who were assigned randomly in a 1:1 ratio to receive either pasireotide lar (60 mg) or octreotide lar (40 mg) every 28 days. the primary outcome measure was symptom control based on the frequency of bowel movements and flushing episodes, while the objective tumor response was a secondary outcome measure. post hoc analysis was performed to calculate the progression-free survival (pfs). the study design was intended to keep both the researchers and the participants unaware of the treatment assignments to reduce bias in the results.", "mix_abstract": "we conducted a phase iii study using a randomized, double-blind design to compare the effectiveness of pasireotide long-acting release (pasireotide lar) and octreotide long-acting repeatable (octreotide lar) in managing refractory carcinoid symptoms that did not respond to first-generation somatostatin analogues. adult patients with digestive tract carcinoid tumors were assigned in a 1:1 ratio to receive either pasireotide lar (60 mg) or octreotide lar (40 mg) every 28 days.  primary outcome was symptom control based on frequency of bowel movements and flushing episodes  the objective tumor response was a secondary outcome. post hoc analysis was used to calculate progression-free survival (pfs)."}
{"title": "the first three years of screening for medium chain acyl-coa_dehydrogenase_deficiency ( mcadd ) by newborn screening ontario", "abstract": "background medium_chain_acyl-coa_dehydrogenase deficiency ( mcadd ) is a disorder of mitochondrial fatty acid oxidation and is one of the most common inborn errors of metabolism . identification of mcadd via newborn screening permits the introduction of interventions that can significantly reduce associated morbidity and mortality . this study reports on the first three years of newborn screening for mcadd in ontario , canada . methods newborn screening ontario began screening for mcadd in april 2006 , by quantification of acylcarnitines ( primarily octanoylcarnitine , c8 ) in dried blood spots using tandem mass spectrometry . babies with positive screening results were referred to physicians at one of five regional newborn screening treatment centres , who were responsible for diagnostic evaluation and follow-up", "gen_abstract": "\n\nthis study investigates the outcomes of the first three years of screening for medium chain acyl-coa_dehydrogenase_deficiency (mcadd) in newborns in ontario. mcadd is a rare genetic disorder that can cause severe health problems, including brain damage and death. the objective of this screening program is to detect mcadd early, allowing for timely intervention and treatment to prevent adverse outcomes. the study analyzes the data collected from the screening program, including the number of positive cases detected, the demographic characteristics of the affected newborns, and the outcomes of the screening process. the results of this study provide valuable insights into the effectiveness of mcadd screening programs and can inform future policies and practices related to newborn screening for rare genetic disorders.", "pol_abstract": "\n\nthe study focuses on medium-chain acyl-coa dehydrogenase deficiency (mcadd), which is a mitochondrial fatty acid oxidation disorder and a common inborn error of metabolism. newborn screening for mcadd in ontario, canada began in april 2006, and positive screening results were referred to physicians at one of five regional newborn screening treatment centres for diagnostic evaluation and follow-up. this approach allows for early identification of mcadd and the introduction of interventions that can reduce associated morbidity and mortality. this article reports on the first three years of mcadd screening in ontario. the screening method used quantification of acylcarnitines, primarily octanoylcarnitine (c8), in dried blood spots using tandem mass spectrometry.", "mix_abstract": "in this study, the focus is on the initial three-year period of newborn screening for medium-chain_acyl-coa_dehydrogenase deficiency (mcadd) in ontario, canada. mcadd is a mitochondrial fatty acid oxidation disorder and is classified as one of the most prevalent inborn errors of metabolism. early detection of mcadd through newborn screening facilitates the implementation of interventions that can effectively decrease morbidity and mortality rates associated with this condition.  methods newborn screening ontario began screening for mcadd in april 2006 , by quantification of acylcarnitines ( primarily octanoylcarnitine , c8 ) in dried blood spots using tandem mass spectrometry    babies with positive screening results were referred to physicians at one of five regional newborn screening treatment centres , who were responsible for diagnostic evaluation and follow-up"}
{"title": "regression rates following the treatment of aggressive posterior retinopathy of prematurity with bevacizumab versus laser : 8-year retrospective analysis", "abstract": "background retinopathy is a serious complication related to prematurity and a leading cause of childhood blindness . the aggressive posterior form of retinopathy_of_prematurity ( aprop ) has a worse anatomical and functional outcome following laser therapy , as compared with the classic form of the disease . the main outcome measures are the aprop regression rate , structural outcomes , and complications associated with intravitreal bevacizumab ( ivb ) versus laser photocoagulation in aprop . material/methods this is a retrospective case series that includes infants with aprop who received either ivb or laser photocoagulation and had a follow-up of at least 60 weeks ( for the laser photocoagulation group ) and 80 weeks ( for the ivb group ) .", "gen_abstract": "\n\nthis study aimed to compare the regression rates of aggressive posterior retinopathy of prematurity (ap-rop) treated with either bevacizumab or laser over an 8-year retrospective period. a total of 150 premature infants diagnosed with ap-rop were included in the analysis. the primary outcome measure was the regression of the disease. the results showed that infants treated with bevacizumab had a higher rate of regression than those treated with laser. additionally, the study found that the rate of recurrence of the disease was lower in the bevacizumab group. these findings suggest that bevacizumab may be a more effective treatment option for ap-rop compared to laser.", "pol_abstract": "retinopathy associated with prematurity is a significant complication and a primary cause of blindness in children. the aggressive posterior form of retinopathy_of_prematurity (aprop) has a poorer functional and anatomical outcome after laser therapy compared to the classic form. this study aims to compare the aprop regression rate, structural outcomes, and complications associated with intravitreal bevacizumab (ivb) versus laser photocoagulation in aprop. the study is a retrospective case series that includes infants with aprop who received either ivb or laser photocoagulation and were followed up for at least 60 weeks (laser photocoagulation group) and 80 weeks (ivb group). the main outcome measures are the aprop regression rate, structural outcomes, and complications associated with each treatment.", "mix_abstract": "retinopathy of prematurity is a significant complication associated with premature birth and is one of the main causes of childhood blindness. the aggressive posterior variant of retinopathy of prematurity, known as aprop, results in a poorer anatomical and functional outcome after laser therapy when compared to the classic form of the disease.  the main outcome measures are the aprop regression rate , structural outcomes , and complications associated with intravitreal bevacizumab ( ivb ) versus laser photocoagulation in aprop  the \"material/methods\" section describes a retrospective case series involving infants diagnosed with aprop who were treated with either ivb or laser photocoagulation. participants were required to have a follow-up period of at least 60 weeks for the laser photocoagulation group and 80 weeks for the ivb group."}
{"title": "candidemia in children after complex congenital_heart_defects surgery treated with caspofungin \u2013 our own experience and a review of literature", "abstract": "summary background invasive fungal infections due to candida species constitute an increasing clinical problem . there are no guidelines for the management of candidemia in children undergoing surgical procedures for congenital_heart_defects ( chd ) . the aim of the study was to draw attention to the problem of candidemia in children who are operated on due to congenital_heart_defects . material/methods we retrospectively analyzed medical documentation of 307 children with congenital_heart_defects treated in 1 clinical centre in poland , from whom we selected those diagnosed with candidemia during the postoperative period . next , we analyzed in detail the clinical course of invasive candidiasis in each individual and we performed an analysis of risk factors that lead to candidemia .", "gen_abstract": "\n\nthe incidence of candidemia in children after complex congenital heart defects surgery is increasing, leading to significant morbidity and mortality. caspofungin is a promising antifungal agent with a unique mechanism of action that may offer advantages over traditional therapy. in this paper, we present our own experience in treating candidemia in children after complex congenital heart defects surgery with caspofungin and review the existing literature on the use of this agent in this patient population. our findings suggest that caspofungin may be an effective treatment option for candidemia in these children, with a good safety profile and favorable outcomes.", "pol_abstract": "background:\ncandida species are causing an increasing number of invasive fungal infections, creating a clinical problem. currently, there are no guidelines for managing candidemia in children undergoing surgical procedures for congenital heart defects (chd). this study aims to raise awareness of candidemia in children with chd who undergo surgery.\n\nmaterials and methods:\nwe conducted a retrospective analysis of medical records for 307 children with chd treated in a single clinical center in poland. we selected those who were diagnosed with candidemia during the postoperative period and analyzed their clinical course of invasive candidiasis. additionally, we performed a detailed analysis of the risk factors that contributed to candidemia.", "mix_abstract": "revised text:\n\nbackground: invasive fungal infections caused by candida species have become a growing concern in clinical practice. however, there are no existing guidelines for the management of candidemia in children undergoing surgical procedures for congenital heart defects (chd). this study aims to raise awareness about candidemia in children who undergo surgery for chd.\n\nmaterial/methods: we conducted a retrospective analysis of medical records of 307 children with chd who received treatment at a clinical center in poland. from this population, we selected patients who were diagnosed with candidemia during the postoperative period.\n\nsummary: this study highlights the increasing clinical problem of invasive fungal infections caused by candida species in children with chd. the absence of guidelines for managing candidemia in this population necessitates further research to optimize treatment strategies. the retrospective analysis of medical records provides preliminary insights into the incidence and characteristics of candidemia in children with chd.  next , we analyzed in detail the clinical course of invasive candidiasis in each individual and we performed an analysis of risk factors that lead to candidemia"}
{"title": "congenital_portal_vein_aneurysm associated with peliosis_hepatis and intestinal_lymphangiectasia", "abstract": "portal vein aneurisym ( pva ) , peliosis_hepatis ( ph ) and intestinal_lymphangiectasia ( il ) all are very uncommon entities . herein , we presented a unique patient with these three rare entities who was admitted to our hospital because of portal hypertensive ascites rich in protein and lymphocyte . pva was extrahepatic and associated with coronary vein aneurysm . peliosis_hepatis was of microscopic form . lymphangiectasia was present in peritoneum and small intestine . diagnoses of these rare entities were made by imaging techniques and histopathological findings . patient also had hydronephrosis caused by ureteropelvic junction narrowing . best of our knowledge , there is no such a case reported previously with the association of pva , ph and", "gen_abstract": "this case report describes a rare congenital anomaly, a portal vein aneurysm, in association with two other conditions: peliosis hepatis and intestinal lymphangiectasia. the patient, a 32-year-old female, presented with nonspecific abdominal pain and was found to have a large portal vein aneurysm on imaging studies. further workup revealed the presence of peliosis hepatis, a rare vascular condition that can cause liver failure, and intestinal lymphangiectasia, a disorder of the lymphatic system that can lead to protein loss and malnutrition. the patient underwent successful surgical intervention to address the portal vein aneurysm, but the management of the associated conditions required ongoing monitoring and treatment. this case highlights the importance of considering rare underlying conditions in the evaluation and management of patients with atypical clinical presentations.", "pol_abstract": "il. \n\nin this report, we describe a patient with an unusual combination of portal vein aneurysm (pva), peliosis hepatis (ph), and intestinal lymphangiectasia (il), which are all extremely rare conditions. the patient was admitted to our hospital due to portal hypertensive ascites that was rich in protein and lymphocytes. the pva was found to be extrahepatic and associated with coronary vein aneurysm, while the ph was in microscopic form. the patient also had peritoneal and small intestine lymphangiectasia, which were diagnosed through imaging techniques and histopathological findings. additionally, the patient suffered from hydronephrosis caused by ureteropelvic junction narrowing. this case is the first reported instance of this unique combination of pva, ph, and il.", "mix_abstract": "the occurrence of portal vein aneurysm (pva), peliosis hepatis (ph), and intestinal lymphangiectasia (il) is exceedingly rare. however, we report an extraordinary case of a patient with all three unusual conditions, who was hospitalized due to portal hypertensive ascites with high levels of protein and lymphocytes. in this case, the pva was located outside of the liver and accompanied by a coronary vein aneurysm.  peliosis_hepatis was of microscopic form  \n\nthe patient exhibited lymphangiectasia in their peritoneum and small intestine. the diagnoses of these uncommon conditions were confirmed through imaging techniques and histopathological examination. additionally, the patient had hydronephrosis due to narrowing of the ureteropelvic junction.  best of our knowledge , there is no such a case reported previously with the association of pva , ph and"}
{"title": "hepatic rather than cardiac_steatosis relates to glucose intolerance in women with prior gestational diabetes", "abstract": "background increased myocardial lipid accumulation has been described in patients with pre- and overt type 2 diabetes and could underlie the development of left-ventricular dysfunction in metabolic diseases ( diabetic cardiomyopathy ) . since women with prior_gestational_diabetes ( pgdm ) display a generally young population at high risk of developing diabetes and associated cardiovascular complications , we aimed to assess whether myocardial lipid accumulation can be detected at early stages of glucose_intolerance and relates to markers of hepatic steatosis ( fatty liver index ) , cardiac function , insulin sensitivity and secretion . methods myocardial lipid content ( mycl ) , left-ventricular function ( 1 h-magnetic-resonance-spectroscopy and -imaging ) , insulin sensitivity/secretion ( oral glucose tolerance test ) and the fatty liver index ( fli ) were assessed in 35 pgdm ( 45.6\u00b17.0 years , 28.3\u00b14.8 kg/m 2 ) and 14 healthy control females ( con ; 44.7\u00b19.8 years , 26.1\u00b12.5 kg/m 2 ) , matching for age and body-mass-index ( each p > 0.1", "gen_abstract": "\n\nthis study aimed to investigate the relationship between cardiac and hepatic steatosis and glucose intolerance in women with a history of gestational diabetes mellitus (gdm). a total of 80 women with prior gdm were included in the study, and their cardiac and hepatic steatosis were assessed using non-invasive imaging techniques. glucose intolerance was evaluated through an oral glucose tolerance test. the results showed that hepatic steatosis was significantly associated with glucose intolerance, whereas cardiac steatosis was not. these findings suggest that hepatic steatosis may play a more significant role than cardiac steatosis in the development of glucose intolerance in women with a history of gdm. further studies are needed to confirm these findings and to explore the underlying mechanisms.", "pol_abstract": "background: patients with pre- and overt type 2 diabetes often exhibit increased myocardial lipid accumulation, which could potentially lead to left-ventricular dysfunction in metabolic diseases such as diabetic cardiomyopathy. as women with prior gestational diabetes (pgdm) are a young population with a high risk of developing diabetes and associated cardiovascular complications, this study aimed to investigate whether myocardial lipid accumulation can be detected in the early stages of glucose intolerance and whether it is related to markers of hepatic steatosis (fatty liver index), cardiac function, insulin sensitivity, and secretion.\n\nmethods: this study assessed myocardial lipid content (mycl), left-ventricular function (using 1h-magnetic-resonance-spectroscopy and -imaging), insulin sensitivity/secretion (using an oral glucose tolerance test), and the fatty liver index (fli) in 35 pgdm patients (45.6\u00b17.0 years, 28.3\u00b14.8 kg/m2) and 14 healthy control females (con; 44.7\u00b19.8 years, 26.1\u00b12.5 kg/m2). the two groups were matched for age and body-mass-index (each p > 0.1).", "mix_abstract": "background: \nincreased myocardial lipid accumulation has been observed in patients with pre- and overt type 2 diabetes, and it could be the underlying cause of left-ventricular dysfunction in metabolic diseases such as diabetic cardiomyopathy. given that women with prior gestational diabetes (pgdm) are generally young and at high risk of developing diabetes and associated cardiovascular complications, we aimed to determine if myocardial lipid accumulation could be detected at early stages of glucose intolerance and if it is related to markers of hepatic steatosis (fatty liver index), cardiac function, insulin sensitivity, and secretion.\n\nmethods: \nwe assessed myocardial lipid content (mycl), left-ventricular function (using 1h-magnetic-resonance-spectroscopy and -imaging), insulin sensitivity/secretion (using an oral glucose tolerance test), and the fatty liver index (fli) in 35 pgdm participants (45.6 \u00b1 7.0 years, 28.3 \u00b1 4.2 kg/m2).\n\n 8 kg/m 2 ) and 14 healthy control females ( con ; 44 here's the polished text:\n\nthe first expression, \"7\u00b19.8 years,\" is commonly used in scientific contexts to indicate a range of possible values, with the central value being 7 years and the range extending from 7 minus 9.8 years to 7 plus 9.8 years. this range is often represented using a plus-minus sign (\u00b1), which means \"plus or minus.\"\n\nthe second expression, \"26,\" is a simple numerical value that does not require any further explanation. 1\u00b12 \n\nthe study controlled for age and body-mass-index (both p > 0) with a surface density of 5 kg/m\u00b2. 1"}
{"title": "phylloquinone and menaquinone-4 tissue distribution at different life stages in male and female sprague\u2013dawley rats fed different vk levels since weaning or subjected to a 40 % calorie restriction since adulthood", "abstract": "whether through the vitamin k-dependent proteins or the individual k vitamers , vitamin k ( vk ) is associated with a number of age-related conditions ( e.g. , osteoporosis , atherosclerosis , insulin resistance , cognitive decline ) . in light of this , we investigated the influence of lifetime dietary vk exposure on the tissue distribution of phylloquinone ( k 1 ) and menaquinone-4 ( mk-4 ) vitamers in 3- , 12- and 22-month-old male and female rats fed different k 1 diets since weaning or subjected to a 40 % calorie restricted diet ( cr ) since adulthood .", "gen_abstract": "\n\nthis study investigates the distribution of phylloquinone and menaquinone-4 in different tissues of male and female sprague-dawley rats at different life stages. the rats were fed with varying levels of vitamin k since weaning or were subjected to a 40% calorie restriction since adulthood. the researchers measured the levels of phylloquinone and menaquinone-4 in various tissues and analyzed the data to determine the distribution of these vitamins in different organs. the results of this study could help in understanding the role of vitamin k in different life stages and how it affects tissue distribution in rats. additionally, this study may provide insights into the potential health benefits of vitamin k supplementation in humans.", "pol_abstract": "the influence of vitamin k (vk), whether it be through vitamin k-dependent proteins or individual k vitamers, has been linked to various age-related conditions such as osteoporosis, atherosclerosis, insulin resistance, and cognitive decline. to investigate this further, we studied the impact of lifetime dietary vk exposure on the distribution of phylloquinone (k1) and menaquinone-4 (mk-4) vitamers in male and female rats of different ages (3-, 12-, and 22-month-old) that were fed different k1 diets since weaning or subjected to a 40% calorie-restricted diet (cr) since adulthood.", "mix_abstract": "vitamin k (vk) is linked to several age-related conditions, either through its vitamin k-dependent proteins or individual k vitamers. g given the well-known association of vitamin k (vk) with several health conditions such as osteoporosis, atherosclerosis, insulin resistance, and cognitive decline, we conducted a study to examine how lifetime dietary vk intake impacts the distribution of phylloquinone (k1) and menaquinone-4 (mk-4) vitamers in male and female rats at 3, 12, and 22 months of age. these rats were fed with different k1 diets from weaning or were subjected to a 40% calorie-restricted diet (cr) from adulthood."}
{"title": "brain_natriuretic_peptide is related to diastolic_dysfunction whereas urinary albumin excretion rate is related to left_ventricular_mass in asymptomatic type 2 diabetes patients", "abstract": "background the aims of this study were to estimate the prevalence of left ventricular systolic ( lvsd ) and diastolic ( lvdd ) dysfunction , and to test if bnp and urinary albumin excretion rate ( aer ) are related to lvsd , lvd and left_ventricular_mass ( lvm ) in asymptomatic type 2 diabetes patients . methods presence of lvsd , lvdd and lvm , determined with echocardiography , was related to levels of bnp and aer in 153 consecutive asymptomatic patients with type 2 diabetes . results lvsd was present in 6.1 % of patients whereas 49 % ( 29 % mild , 19 % moderate and 0.7 % severe ) had lvdd and 9.4 % had left ventricular", "gen_abstract": "this study aims to investigate the relationship between brain natriuretic peptide (bnp) and diastolic dysfunction, as well as urinary albumin excretion rate (uaer) and left ventricular mass (lvm) in asymptomatic type 2 diabetes patients. the results show that bnp levels are significantly associated with diastolic dysfunction, while uaer levels are significantly associated with lvm in this patient population. these findings suggest that bnp and uaer may be useful biomarkers for identifying early cardiovascular abnormalities in asymptomatic type 2 diabetes patients.", "pol_abstract": "\n\nin this study, the objective was to determine the prevalence of left ventricular systolic and diastolic dysfunction (lvsd and lvdd, respectively) in asymptomatic patients with type 2 diabetes and to investigate the potential relationship between these dysfunctions, left ventricular mass (lvm), and biomarkers such as bnp and urinary albumin excretion rate (aer). echocardiography was used to identify the presence of lvsd, lvdd, and lvm in 153 consecutive patients. the results showed that lvsd was present in 6.1% of patients, while 49% had lvdd (29% mild, 19% moderate, and 0.7% severe), and 9.4% had left ventricular hypertrophy.", "mix_abstract": "the objective of this study was to determine the prevalence of left ventricular systolic (lvsd) and diastolic (lvdd) dysfunction in asymptomatic patients with type 2 diabetes, and investigate the potential associations between lvsd, lvdd, and left ventricular mass (lvm) with biomarkers such as bnp and urinary albumin excretion rate (aer).  methods presence of lvsd , lvdd and lvm , determined with echocardiography , was related to levels of bnp and aer in 153 consecutive asymptomatic patients with type 2 diabetes  \n\nthe study found that lvsd was observed in 6.1% of patients, while 49% of patients (29% with mild, 19% with moderate, and 0.7% with severe lvdd) had lvdd. in addition, 9% of patients had both lvsd and lvdd. 4 % had left ventricular"}
{"title": "anticonvulsant effects of mefloquine on generalized tonic-clonic_seizures induced by two acute models in rats", "abstract": "background mefloquine can cross the blood\u2013brain barrier and block the gap junction intercellular communication in the brain . enhanced electrical coupling mediated by gap junctions is an underlying mechanism involved in the generation and maintenance of seizures . for this reason , the aim of this study was to analyze the effects of the systemic administration of mefloquine on tonic-clonic_seizures induced by two acute models such as pentylenetetrazole and maximal electroshock . results all the control rats presented generalized tonic-clonic_seizures after the administration of pentylenetetrazole . however , the incidence of seizures induced by pentylenetetrazole significantly decreased in the groups administered systematically with 40 and 80 mg/kg of mefloquine .", "gen_abstract": "\n\nthis study investigated the potential anticonvulsant effects of mefloquine on generalized tonic-clonic seizures induced by two acute models in rats. the results showed that mefloquine significantly reduced the duration and frequency of seizures induced by both models, suggesting that mefloquine may be a promising candidate for the treatment of generalized tonic-clonic seizures. these findings could have important implications for the development of novel therapies for epilepsy and related disorders.", "pol_abstract": "\n\nthe objective of this study was to investigate the impact of mefloquine on seizures induced by pentylenetetrazole and maximal electroshock. mefloquine has the ability to block gap junction intercellular communication in the brain by crossing the blood-brain barrier, which can enhance electrical coupling and contribute to seizure generation and maintenance. the study found that the incidence of seizures induced by pentylenetetrazole was significantly reduced in rats that received systemic administration of 40 and 80 mg/kg of mefloquine, whereas all control rats experienced generalized tonic-clonic seizures after pentylenetetrazole administration.", "mix_abstract": "background mefloquine can cross the blood\u2013brain barrier and block the gap junction intercellular communication in the brain  gap junctions play a crucial role in the generation and maintenance of seizures by facilitating enhanced electrical coupling. hence, the purpose of this investigation was to examine the impact of mefloquine's systemic administration on tonic-clonic seizures triggered by acute models such as pentylenetetrazole and maximal electroshock. the results revealed that all control rats experienced generalized tonic-clonic seizures following pentylenetetrazole administration. nevertheless, the occurrence of seizures decreased significantly in the groups that received mefloquine at 40 and 80 mg/kg via systemic administration."}
{"title": "prevalence of vitamin_d_deficiency among indian menopausal women and its correlation with diabetes : a first indian cross sectional data", "abstract": "aim and objective : to evaluate prevalence of vitamin_d_deficiency and establish any correlation between diabetes and vitamin_d_deficiency among postmenopausal women . materials and methods : the 25-hydroxy vitamin d [ 25 ( oh ) d ] concentrations were measured by competitive in-vitro quantitative immunoassay . the subjects were classified as vitamin d-deficient , insufficient or sufficient on the basis of 25 ( oh ) d concentrations of < 20 ng/ml , 20\u201330 ng/ml or > 30 ng/ml respectively . the apparently normal postmenopausal women ( pmw ) were subjected to fasting blood sugar levels to analyse any correlation between vitamin_d_deficiency and diabetes .", "gen_abstract": "\n\nthis cross-sectional study aimed to determine the prevalence of vitamin d deficiency among indian menopausal women and its correlation with diabetes. the study collected data from a sample of menopausal women aged 45-70 years from various regions of india. the results showed a high prevalence of vitamin d deficiency among menopausal women, with a significant association between vitamin d deficiency and diabetes. the study provides valuable insights into the current status of vitamin d deficiency among indian menopausal women and highlights the need for further research and interventions to address this issue.", "pol_abstract": "\n\nobjective: this study aims to assess the prevalence of vitamin d deficiency and examine the potential correlation between vitamin d deficiency and diabetes among postmenopausal women. \n\nmaterials and methods: the study utilized competitive in-vitro quantitative immunoassay to measure 25-hydroxy vitamin d [25(oh)d] concentrations. subjects were categorized as vitamin d-deficient, insufficient, or sufficient based on their 25(oh)d concentrations: <20 ng/ml, 20-30 ng/ml, and >30 ng/ml, respectively. additionally, apparently normal postmenopausal women underwent fasting blood sugar level tests to investigate any link between vitamin d deficiency and diabetes.", "mix_abstract": "aim and objective : to evaluate prevalence of vitamin_d_deficiency and establish any correlation between diabetes and vitamin_d_deficiency among postmenopausal women  \n\nmaterials and methods:\nin this study, the concentration of 25-hydroxy vitamin d [25(oh)d] was measured using a competitive in-vitro quantitative immunoassay. the subjects were classified as vitamin d-deficient, insufficient or sufficient based on their 25(oh)d concentrations. specifically, concentrations of <20 ng/ml were classified as deficient, 20-30 ng/ml as insufficient, and >30 ng/ml as sufficient. \nto analyze any potential correlation between vitamin d deficiency and diabetes, apparently normal postmenopausal women (pmw) underwent fasting blood sugar level tests."}
{"title": "infectious_pancreatic_necrosis_virus ( ipnv ) from salmonid fish enters , but does not replicate in , mammalian cells", "abstract": "background the aquatic birnavirus infectious_pancreatic_necrosis_virus ( ipnv ) causes infectious_pancreatic_necrosis ( ipn ) , a severe disease in farmed salmonid fish . ipnv has a very broad host range and infects many different species of fish as well as molluscs and crustaceans . investigation of the host reservoir of a virus may reveal important molecular mechanisms governing the infection processes such as receptors and entry mechanisms . in the present work we have studied whether ipnv is able to infect cells with different mammalian origin . results ipnv bound in a specific manner to a membrane protein of the rabbit kidney cell line rk-13 as shown by the use of a virus overlay protein binding assay ( vopba ) .", "gen_abstract": "\n\nthe infectious pancreatic necrosis virus (ipnv) is a highly contagious virus that primarily affects salmonid fish. while it is known that the virus can infect mammalian cells, it has been unclear whether it can replicate within them. this study aimed to investigate the ability of ipnv to enter and replicate in mammalian cells. results showed that ipnv could indeed enter mammalian cells, but it did not replicate within them. this finding suggests that while ipnv has the potential to infect mammals, it does not pose a significant threat to them as it cannot multiply within their cells. the study highlights the importance of understanding the mechanisms of viral infection and replication to develop effective strategies to prevent the spread of zoonotic diseases.", "pol_abstract": "background: infectious pancreatic necrosis virus (ipnv), an aquatic birnavirus, causes infectious pancreatic necrosis (ipn), a severe disease in farmed salmonid fish. this virus has a broad host range and can infect various species of fish, molluscs, and crustaceans. investigating the host reservoir of a virus can provide insights into critical molecular mechanisms involved in infection, such as entry mechanisms and receptors. in this study, we investigated whether ipnv could infect mammalian cells of different origins.\n\nresults: by using a virus overlay protein binding assay (vopba), we demonstrated that ipnv binds specifically to a membrane protein of the rabbit kidney cell line rk-13.", "mix_abstract": "background the aquatic birnavirus infectious_pancreatic_necrosis_virus ( ipnv ) causes infectious_pancreatic_necrosis ( ipn ) , a severe disease in farmed salmonid fish  ipnv can infect a wide variety of fish species, as well as molluscs and crustaceans, indicating a broad host range. researching the host reservoir of a virus can uncover significant molecular mechanisms governing the infection process, including entry mechanisms and receptors. in this study, we examined whether ipnv has the ability to infect mammalian cells of different origins. the results revealed that ipnv binds specifically to a membrane protein found in the rk-13 rabbit kidney cell line, as demonstrated by the use of a virus overlay protein binding assay (vopba)."}
{"title": "resistance to recombinant human erythropoietin therapy in a rat model of chronic_kidney_disease associated anemia", "abstract": "this study aimed to elucidate the mechanisms explaining the persistence of anemia and resistance to recombinant human erythropoietin ( rhuepo ) therapy in a rat model of chronic_kidney_disease ( ckd ) -associated anemia with formation of anti-rhuepo antibodies . the remnant kidney rat model of ckd induced by 5/6 nephrectomy was used to test a long-term ( nine weeks ) high dose of rhuepo ( 200 ui/kg bw/week ) treatment . hematological and biochemical parameters were evaluated as well as serum and tissue ( kidney , liver and/or duodenum ) protein and/or gene expression of mediators of erythropoiesis , iron metabolism and tissue hypoxia , inflammation , and fibrosis .", "gen_abstract": "\n\nthe present study investigates the resistance of recombinant human erythropoietin (rhuepo) therapy in a rat model of chronic kidney disease (ckd) associated anemia. ckd is a common medical condition characterized by a progressive loss of kidney function leading to anemia, which is often treated with rhuepo therapy. however, some ckd patients exhibit a reduced response to rhuepo, resulting in persistent anemia. in this study, ckd rats were treated with rhuepo for a period of time, and the response to treatment was evaluated by measuring hematological parameters, including hemoglobin concentration and red blood cell count. the results revealed that some ckd rats exhibited resistance to rhuepo therapy, as evidenced by a lack of significant improvement in hematological parameters. these findings suggest that resistance to rhuepo therapy may be a contributing factor to the persistent anemia in some ckd patients and highlight the need for further research into the underlying mechanisms of resistance to rhuepo therapy.", "pol_abstract": "\n\nthe objective of this research was to explain the reasons behind the persistence of anemia and the resistance to recombinant human erythropoietin therapy in rats with chronic kidney disease and the formation of anti-rhuepo antibodies. to test a long-term treatment of rhuepo (200 ui/kg bw/week) over nine weeks, the researchers used a remnant kidney rat model of ckd induced by 5/6 nephrectomy. they evaluated hematological and biochemical parameters, as well as protein and gene expression of erythropoiesis mediators, iron metabolism, tissue hypoxia, inflammation, and fibrosis in serum and tissues such as the kidney, liver, and/or duodenum.", "mix_abstract": "the objective of this research was to investigate the underlying mechanisms that result in the continuation of anemia and the resistance to recombinant human erythropoietin (rhuepo) therapy in a rat model with chronic kidney disease (ckd)-associated anemia and anti-rhuepo antibodies formation. to accomplish this, a long-term (nine weeks) high dosage of rhuepo treatment (200 ui/kg bw/week) was administered to rats with ckd induced by 5/6 nephrectomy. various hematological and biochemical parameters were assessed, along with protein and gene expression levels of erythropoiesis mediators, iron metabolism, tissue hypoxia, inflammation, and fibrosis in kidney, liver, and/or duodenum tissues."}
{"title": "the hospital burden of disease associated with bone metastases and skeletal-related_events in patients with breast_cancer , lung_cancer , or prostate_cancer in spain", "abstract": "pockett r.d. , castellano d. , mcewan p. , oglesby a. , barber b.l . & chung k. ( 2010 ) european journal of cancer care 19 , 755\u2013760 the hospital burden of disease associated with bone metastases and skeletal-related_events in patients with breast_cancer , lung_cancer , or prostate_cancer in spain metastatic bone disease ( mbd ) is the most common cause of cancer pain and of serious skeletal-related_events ( sres ) reducing quality of life . management of mbd involves a multimodal approach aimed at delaying the first sre and reducing subsequent sres . the objective of the study was to characterise the hospital burden of disease associated with mbd and sres following breast , lung and prostate_cancer in", "gen_abstract": "\n\nthis study aimed to investigate the hospital burden of disease associated with bone metastases and skeletal-related events in patients with breast cancer, lung cancer, or prostate cancer in spain. using a large database of hospital admissions, the authors analyzed the prevalence, clinical characteristics, and resource utilization of these patients. they found that bone metastases and skeletal-related events were common in patients with these cancers, and were associated with significant morbidity and resource use. the study highlights the importance of early detection and management of bone metastases and skeletal-related events to reduce the hospital burden of these conditions and improve patient outcomes.", "pol_abstract": "in 2010, pockett r.d., castellano d., mcewan p., oglesby a., barber b.l., and chung k. published a study in the european journal of cancer care about the hospital burden of disease related to bone metastases and skeletal-related events (sres) in patients with breast, lung, or prostate cancer in spain. metastatic bone disease (mbd) is a major cause of cancer pain and reduces the quality of life due to sres. the study aimed to describe the hospital burden of mbd and sres in patients with breast, lung, or prostate cancer and highlighted the importance of a multimodal approach to manage mbd and reduce sres, focusing on delaying the first sre and minimizing subsequent sres.", "mix_abstract": "pockett r possible rephrased versions:\n\n- d. castellano and p. mcewan are the names indicated.\n- the names listed are d. castellano and p. mcewan.\n- d. castellano and p. mcewan are the individuals mentioned in the text.  , oglesby a   , barber b l. & chung k. (2010) european journal of cancer care, 19, 755\u2013760.\n\n\"the hospital burden of disease associated with bone metastases and skeletal-related events in patients with breast cancer, lung cancer, or prostate cancer in spain\"\n\nmetastatic bone disease (mbd) is the leading cause of cancer pain and serious skeletal-related events (sres) that can significantly reduce the quality of life. managing mbd requires a multimodal approach aimed at delaying the first sre and reducing subsequent sres.  the objective of the study was to characterise the hospital burden of disease associated with mbd and sres following breast , lung and prostate_cancer in"}
{"title": "mir-320a affects spinal cord edema through negatively regulating aquaporin-1 of blood\u2013spinal cord barrier during bimodal stage after ischemia_reperfusion_injury in rats", "abstract": "background spinal cord edema is a serious complication and pathophysiological change after ischemia reperfusion ( ir ) injury . it has been demonstrated closely associated with bimodal disruption of blood\u2013spinal cord barrier ( bscb ) in our previous work . aquaporin ( aqp ) 1 plays important but contradictory roles in water homeostasis . recently , micrornas ( mirs ) effectively regulate numerous target mrnas during ischemia . however , whether mirs are able to protect against dimodal disruption of bscb by regulating perivascular aqp 1 remains to be elucidated . results spinal water content and eb extravasation were suggested as a bimodal distribution in directly proportion to aqp 1 , since all maximal changes were detected at 12 and 48 h after", "gen_abstract": "this study investigates the role of mir-320a in regulating spinal cord edema through the modulation of aquaporin-1 expression in the blood-spinal cord barrier during the bimodal stage following ischemia-reperfusion injury in rats. using a rat model of spinal cord injury, the authors show that mir-320a negatively regulates aquaporin-1 expression and thus influences the development of spinal cord edema. these findings provide new insights into the molecular mechanisms underlying spinal cord injury and suggest that mir-320a could be a potential therapeutic target for preventing or treating spinal cord edema.", "pol_abstract": "\n\nbackground: spinal cord edema is a significant complication and pathophysiological change that occurs after ischemia-reperfusion (ir) injury. our previous work has demonstrated that it is closely associated with the disruption of the blood-spinal cord barrier (bscb) through a bimodal process. aquaporin 1 (aqp1) plays an important yet contradictory role in water homeostasis. micrornas (mirs) have been shown to effectively regulate numerous target mrnas during ischemia. however, it is still unclear whether mirs can protect against bimodal bscb disruption by regulating perivascular aqp1.\n\nresults: the spinal water content and eb extravasation showed a bimodal distribution directly proportional to aqp1 levels. maximal changes were detected at 12 and 48 hours after ir injury.", "mix_abstract": "background: spinal cord edema is a significant complication and pathophysiological change that occurs following ischemia-reperfusion (ir) injury.  it has been demonstrated closely associated with bimodal disruption of blood\u2013spinal cord barrier ( bscb ) in our previous work  \n\naquaporin 1 (aqp1) has both important and conflicting roles in regulating water balance. micrornas (mirs) have been shown to effectively regulate numerous target mrnas during ischemia. however, it is currently unclear whether mirs can protect against bimodal disruption of the blood-spinal cord barrier (bscb) by regulating perivascular aqp1.  results spinal water content and eb extravasation were suggested as a bimodal distribution in directly proportion to aqp 1 , since all maximal changes were detected at 12 and 48 h after"}
{"title": "microsomal triglyceride transfer protein -164 t > c gene polymorphism and risk of cardiovascular_disease : results from the epic-potsdam case-cohort study", "abstract": "background the microsomal_triglyceride_transfer_protein ( mttp ) is encoded by the mttp gene that is regulated by cholesterol in humans . previous studies investigating the effect of mttp on ischemic heart disease have produced inconsistent results . therefore , we have tested the hypothesis that the rare allele of the -164t > c polymorphism in mttp alters the risk of cardiovascular_disease ( cvd ) , depending on the cholesterol levels . methods the -164t > c polymorphism was genotyped in a case-cohort study ( 193 incident myocardial infarction ( mi ) and 131 incident ischemic stroke ( is ) cases and 1 978 non-cases ) nested within the european prospective investigation into cancer and nutrition ( epic ) \u2013potsdam study , comprising 27 548 middle-aged", "gen_abstract": "\n\nthe microsomal triglyceride transfer protein (mttp) -164 t>c gene polymorphism has been suggested to influence lipid metabolism and play a role in the development of cardiovascular disease (cvd). this study aimed to investigate the association between mttp -164 t>c polymorphism and the risk of cvd using data from the epic-potsdam case-cohort study. the results suggest that individuals carrying the mttp -164 c allele have an increased risk of cvd, especially in women. these findings contribute to our understanding of the genetic basis of cvd and may have implications for personalized prevention strategies.", "pol_abstract": "\n\nbackground:\nthe mttp gene encodes the microsomal triglyceride transfer protein (mttp) which is regulated by cholesterol in humans. previous studies have produced inconsistent results on the effect of mttp on ischemic heart disease. this study aims to test the hypothesis that the rare allele of the -164t > c polymorphism in mttp alters the risk of cardiovascular disease (cvd) depending on cholesterol levels.\n\nmethods:\nin a case-cohort study, the -164t > c polymorphism was genotyped in 193 incident myocardial infarction (mi) and 131 incident ischemic stroke (is) cases, and 1,978 non-cases nested within the european prospective investigation into cancer and nutrition (epic) - potsdam study comprising 27,548 middle-aged individuals.\n\nnote: the original abstract had some minor spelling mistakes and inconsistencies in capitalization, which were corrected while maintaining the original semantics.", "mix_abstract": "the gene mttp encodes the microsomal triglyceride transfer protein and is influenced by cholesterol levels in humans. research on the role of mttp in ischemic heart disease has yielded inconsistent findings. to address this, we examined the hypothesis that the -164t > c polymorphism in mttp's rare allele could affect the likelihood of cardiovascular disease (cvd) based on cholesterol levels.  methods the -164t > c polymorphism was genotyped in a case-cohort study ( 193 incident myocardial infarction ( mi ) and 131 incident ischemic stroke ( is ) cases and 1 978 non-cases ) nested within the european prospective investigation into cancer and nutrition ( epic ) \u2013potsdam study , comprising 27 548 middle-aged"}
{"title": "the bioavailability and airway clearance of the steroid component of budesonide/formoterol and salmeterol/fluticasone after inhaled administration in patients with copd and healthy subjects : a randomized controlled trial", "abstract": "background airway absorption and bioavailability of inhaled corticosteroids ( icss ) may be influenced by differences in pharmacokinetic properties such as lipophilicity and patient characteristics such as lung function . this study aimed to further investigate and clarify the distribution of budesonide and fluticasone in patients with severe chronic obstructive pulmonary disease ( copd ) by measuring the systemic availability and sputum concentration of budesonide and fluticasone , administered via combination inhalers with the respective long-acting \u03b2 2 -agonists , formoterol and salmeterol . methods this was a randomized , double-blind , double-dummy , two-way crossover , multicenter study . following a run-in period , 28 patients with severe copd ( mean age 65 years , mean forced expiratory volume in 1 second [ fev 1 ] 37.5 % predicted normal ) and 27 healthy subjects ( mean age 31 years , fev 1 103.3 % predicted normal ) received two single-dose treatments of budesonide/formoterol ( 400/12 \u03bcg ) and salmeterol/fluticasone ( 50/500 \u03bcg ) , separated by a 4\u201314-day washout", "gen_abstract": "\n\nthis randomized controlled trial investigated the bioavailability and airway clearance of the steroid component of two commonly prescribed inhaled combination therapies, budesonide/formoterol and salmeterol/fluticasone, in patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (copd) and healthy individuals. the study aimed to compare the pharmacokinetic profiles and lung deposition of these medications in both groups, which could provide valuable insights into optimizing treatment strategies for copd. results of the trial will provide important information on the effectiveness of these treatments, which can ultimately lead to better management of copd and improve patient outcomes.", "pol_abstract": "this study aimed to investigate the impact of pharmacokinetic properties and patient characteristics on the absorption and bioavailability of inhaled corticosteroids (icss) in patients with severe chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (copd). specifically, the study measured the systemic availability and sputum concentration of budesonide and fluticasone, administered via combination inhalers with respective long-acting \u03b22-agonists, formoterol and salmeterol. the study design was a randomized, double-blind, double-dummy, two-way crossover, multicenter trial that included 28 patients with severe copd and 27 healthy subjects. the results were obtained by administering two single-dose treatments of budesonide/formoterol (400/12 \u03bcg) and salmeterol/fluticasone (50/500 \u03bcg), with a washout period of 4-14 days in between.", "mix_abstract": "background airway absorption and bioavailability of inhaled corticosteroids ( icss ) may be influenced by differences in pharmacokinetic properties such as lipophilicity and patient characteristics such as lung function  the purpose of this investigation was to study the dispersion of budesonide and fluticasone in individuals with severe copd by examining their systemic availability and sputum concentration. to achieve this, the medications were administered through combination inhalers with long-acting \u03b2 2 -agonists formoterol and salmeterol. the research design utilized for this study was a multicenter, randomized, double-blind, double-dummy, two-way crossover approach. a total of 28 patients with severe copd (mean age of 65 years and mean forced expiratory volume in 1 second [fev1] of 37.5% predicted normal) and 27 healthy subjects (mean age of 31 years and fev1 of 103%) were enrolled following a run-in period. 3 % predicted normal ) received two single-dose treatments of budesonide/formoterol ( 400/12 \u03bcg ) and salmeterol/fluticasone ( 50/500 \u03bcg ) , separated by a 4\u201314-day washout"}
{"title": "do corticosteroids reduce the mortality of influenza_a ( h1n1 ) infection ? a meta-analysis", "abstract": "introduction corticosteroids are used empirically in influenza_a ( h1n1 ) treatment despite lack of clear evidence for effective treatment . this study aims to assess the efficacy of corticosteroids treatment for h1n1 infection . methods systematic review and meta-analysis were used to estimate the efficacy of corticosteroids for the prevention of mortality in h1n1 infection . databases searched included medline , embase , pubmed , cochrane central register of controlled clinical trials and so on , and bibliographies of retrieved articles , from april 2009 to october 2014 . we included both cohort studies and case-control studies reported in english or chinese that compared treatment effects between corticosteroids and non-corticosteroids therapy in inpatients with h1n1 virus infection .", "gen_abstract": "\n\nthis meta-analysis aimed to assess the potential effect of corticosteroids on reducing mortality rates in patients with influenza a (h1n1) infection. a comprehensive search was conducted to identify relevant studies, and a total of several studies were included in the analysis. the findings of the meta-analysis suggested that corticosteroids may not have a significant impact on reducing mortality rates in patients with influenza a (h1n1) infection. however, some subgroups of patients, such as those with severe disease or acute respiratory distress syndrome (ards), may benefit from corticosteroid treatment. further research is needed to clarify the potential benefits and risks of corticosteroid therapy in patients with influenza a (h1n1) infection.", "pol_abstract": "the aim of this study is to evaluate the effectiveness of corticosteroids treatment for h1n1 infection, which is currently being used without clear evidence of its efficacy. to achieve this, a systematic review and meta-analysis were conducted using various databases such as medline, embase, pubmed, cochrane central register of controlled clinical trials, as well as bibliographies of retrieved articles from april 2009 to october 2014. cohort studies and case-control studies that compared the treatment effects between corticosteroids and non-corticosteroids therapy in inpatients with h1n1 virus infection were included, provided they were reported in english or chinese. the primary outcome measure was the prevention of mortality in h1n1 infection.", "mix_abstract": "introduction:\n\ncorticosteroids are commonly used empirically in the treatment of influenza a (h1n1), despite the lack of clear evidence for their effectiveness  methods systematic review and meta-analysis were used to estimate the efficacy of corticosteroids for the prevention of mortality in h1n1 infection  from april 2009 to october 2014, we conducted a comprehensive search of several databases, including medline, embase, pubmed, cochrane central register of controlled clinical trials, and reviewed the bibliographies of retrieved articles. the aim was to identify cohort studies and case-control studies that compared the treatment effects of corticosteroids versus non-corticosteroids therapy in inpatients with h1n1 virus infection. we only considered studies reported in english or chinese."}
{"title": "retroperitoneal teratoma with somatic malignant transformation : a papillary renal_cell_carcinoma in a testicular germ_cell_tumour metastasis following platinum-based chemotherapy", "abstract": "background malignant transformation describes the phenomenon in which a somatic component of a germ cell teratoma undergoes malignant differentiation . a variety of different types of sarcoma and carcinoma , all non-germ cell , have been described as a result of malignant transformation . case presentation a 33-year-old man presented with a left testicular mass and elevated tumour markers . staging investigations revealed retroperitoneal lymphadenopathy with obstruction of the left ureter and distant metastases . histopathology from the left radical orchiectomy showed a mixed germ_cell_tumour ( stage iii , poor prognosis ) . the ureter was stented and four cycles of cisplatin , etoposide and bleomycin chemotherapy administered .", "gen_abstract": "\n\nthis case report describes a rare occurrence of somatic malignant transformation in a retroperitoneal teratoma, presenting as a papillary renal cell carcinoma in a testicular germ cell tumor metastasis following platinum-based chemotherapy. the authors discuss the diagnostic challenges associated with this transformation and highlight the importance of a multidisciplinary approach in the management of such cases. this report emphasizes the need for continued research in understanding the molecular mechanisms underlying somatic malignant transformation in germ cell tumors, which may inform future therapeutic strategies.", "pol_abstract": "\n\nbackground:\nthe term \"malignant transformation\" refers to the process by which a non-germ cell component of a germ cell teratoma becomes cancerous, resulting in various types of sarcoma and carcinoma. \n\ncase presentation:\na 33-year-old man was diagnosed with a left testicular mass and increased levels of tumour markers. further investigations revealed lymph node enlargement in the retroperitoneal region, causing obstruction of the left ureter, as well as distant metastases. the left radical orchiectomy showed a mixed germ_cell_tumour at stage iii with a poor prognosis. the patient received chemotherapy consisting of cisplatin, etoposide, and bleomycin, and had a ureteral stent inserted.", "mix_abstract": "the process known as malignant transformation refers to the development of cancerous cells from a particular part of a germ cell teratoma. this transformation can lead to several different types of sarcoma and carcinoma, which are all non-germ cell in origin. \n\nin a clinical case, a 33-year-old male patient presented with a mass in his left testicle and an increased level of tumour markers. further investigations revealed the presence of retroperitoneal lymphadenopathy, which obstructed the left ureter, as well as distant metastases. following a left radical orchiectomy, the histopathology report showed a mixed germ cell tumour that was classified as stage iii and had a poor prognosis.  the ureter was stented and four cycles of cisplatin , etoposide and bleomycin chemotherapy administered"}
{"title": "effect of a high bicarbonate mineral_water on fasting and postprandial_lipemia in moderately hypercholesterolemic subjects : a pilot study", "abstract": "background during postprandial state , tg concentration is increasing and hdl cholesterol decreasing , leading to a transitory pro-atherosclerotic profile . previous studies have reported that bicarbonate water improve postprandial_lipemia . the objective of this study was to analyze the effect of a strongly bicarbonated mineral_water on lipoprotein levels during fasting and postprandial state . methods a controlled , randomised , double-blind cross-over design was conducted in 12 moderately hypercholesterolemic subjects after a daily ingestion of 1.25 l of mineral ( sy ) or low mineral_water during eight weeks separated by a one week wash-out period . blood samples were collected in first visit to the hospital ( v1 ) before water consumption ( referent or sy ) and in a second visit ( v2 ) after eight week water consumption", "gen_abstract": "this pilot study aimed to investigate the effect of high bicarbonate mineral water on fasting and postprandial lipemia in moderately hypercholesterolemic subjects. a total of [number] participants were recruited and underwent a randomized, controlled, crossover trial where they consumed high bicarbonate mineral water or control water for a period of [duration]. blood samples were taken before and after a standardized meal to assess fasting and postprandial lipemia. results showed that consumption of high bicarbonate mineral water was associated with a significant reduction in both fasting and postprandial lipemia compared to the control water. these findings suggest that high bicarbonate mineral water may have potential as a dietary intervention for managing dyslipidemia in moderately hypercholesterolemic individuals. further research with a larger sample size and longer intervention period is warranted to confirm these results.", "pol_abstract": "background:\nduring the postprandial state, there is an increase in tg concentration and a decrease in hdl cholesterol, which leads to a transient pro-atherosclerotic profile. previous studies have shown that bicarbonate water can improve postprandial lipemia. the objective of this study was to examine the impact of strongly bicarbonated mineral water on lipoprotein levels during fasting and the postprandial state.\n\nmethods:\na controlled, randomized, double-blind crossover study was conducted on 12 moderately hypercholesterolemic individuals. they consumed 1.25 l of either mineral water (sy) or low mineral water daily for eight weeks, with a one-week washout period between the two. blood samples were collected at the first visit to the hospital (v1), before water consumption (reference or sy), and at a second visit (v2), after eight weeks of water consumption.", "mix_abstract": "background during postprandial state , tg concentration is increasing and hdl cholesterol decreasing , leading to a transitory pro-atherosclerotic profile  \n\nearlier research has shown that drinking bicarbonate water can enhance the body's ability to process fat after a meal. this study aimed to investigate how strongly bicarbonated mineral water affects lipoprotein levels while fasting and after a meal. the study utilized a controlled, randomized, double-blind crossover design involving 12 individuals with moderately high cholesterol. participants consumed either 1.25 l of mineral water (sy) or low mineral water daily for eight weeks, with a one-week break between each period.  blood samples were collected in first visit to the hospital ( v1 ) before water consumption ( referent or sy ) and in a second visit ( v2 ) after eight week water consumption"}
{"title": "toxicity and long-term outcomes of dose-escalated intensity modulated radiation therapy to 74gy for localised_prostate_cancer in a single australian centre", "abstract": "purpose to report the toxicity and long-term outcomes of dose-escalated intensity-modulated radiation therapy ( imrt ) for patients with localised_prostate_cancer . methods and materials from 2001 to 2005 , a total of 125 patients with histologically confirmed t1-3n0m0 prostate_cancer were treated with imrt to 74gy at the austin health radiation oncology centre . the median follow-up was 5.5 years ( range 0.5\u20138.9 years ) . biochemical prostate specific antigen ( bpsa ) failure was defined according to the phoenix consensus definition ( absolute nadir + 2ng/ml ) . toxicity was scored according to the rtog/eortc criteria . kaplan-meier analysis was used to calculate toxicity rates , as well as the risks of bpsa failure , distant metastases , disease-specific and overall survival , at 5 and 8-years post", "gen_abstract": "\n\nthis study aims to investigate the toxicity and long-term outcomes of dose-escalated intensity-modulated radiation therapy (imrt) to 74gy for localized prostate cancer in a single australian center. the study included a cohort of patients who underwent imrt treatment between 2008 and 2015. the primary outcome of the study was to evaluate the incidence of acute and late toxicity associated with the treatment, while the secondary outcomes included biochemical recurrence-free survival, overall survival, and metastasis-free survival. the findings of this study provide important insights into the effectiveness and safety of dose-escalated imrt for localized prostate cancer, which can inform clinical decision-making and improve patient outcomes.", "pol_abstract": "the objective of this report is to present the long-term results and toxicity associated with dose-escalated intensity-modulated radiation therapy (imrt) in the treatment of localized prostate cancer. between 2001 and 2005, 125 patients with confirmed t1-3n0m0 prostate cancer received imrt at the austin health radiation oncology centre, with a total dose of 74gy. patients were followed up for a median of 5.5 years (range 0.5-8.9 years), and biochemical failure was defined using the phoenix consensus definition. toxicity was assessed using rtog/eortc criteria, and kaplan-meier analysis was used to determine toxicity rates, as well as the risks of biochemical failure, distant metastases, disease-specific survival, and overall survival at 5 and 8 years post-treatment.", "mix_abstract": "the objective of this study is to present the long-term results and toxicity of dose-escalated intensity-modulated radiation therapy (imrt) in patients diagnosed with localized prostate cancer. the study involved administering imrt to 125 patients with t1-3n0m0 prostate cancer confirmed by histology, at the austin health radiation oncology centre between 2001 and 2005. the patients received 74gy of radiation, and their progress was monitored for a median follow-up period of 5.5 years (ranging from 0.5 to 8.9 years). the criterion for determining biochemical prostate-specific antigen (bpsa) failure was the phoenix consensus definition, which is an absolute nadir plus 2ng/ml. additionally, the study evaluated any adverse effects resulting from the treatment.  toxicity was scored according to the rtog/eortc criteria    kaplan-meier analysis was used to calculate toxicity rates , as well as the risks of bpsa failure , distant metastases , disease-specific and overall survival , at 5 and 8-years post"}
{"title": "alkyl_phenols and diethylhexyl_phthalate in tissues of sheep grazing pastures fertilized with sewage sludge or inorganic fertilizer", "abstract": "we studied selected tissues from ewes and their lambs that were grazing pastures fertilized with either sewage sludge ( treated ) or inorganic fertilizer ( control ) and determined concentrations of alkylphenols and phthalates in these tissues . mean tissue concentrations of alkylphenols were relatively low ( < 10\u2013400 \u03bcg/kg ) in all animals and tissues . phthalates were detected in tissues of both control and treated animals at relatively high concentrations ( > 20,000 \u03bcg/kg in many tissue samples ) . the use of sludge as a fertilizer was not associated with consistently increased concentrations of either alkylphenols or phthalates in the tissues of animals grazing treated pastures relative to levels in control animal tissues .", "gen_abstract": "\n\nthis study aimed to investigate the levels of alkylphenols (aps) and diethylhexyl phthalate (dehp) in tissues of sheep grazing on pastures fertilized with sewage sludge or inorganic fertilizer. tissue samples were collected from sheep in three different areas, including a sewage-sludge-fertilized pasture, an inorganic-fertilizer-fertilized pasture, and an unfertilized control pasture. results showed that sheep grazing on the sewage-sludge-fertilized pasture had significantly higher levels of aps and dehp in their tissues compared to those in the inorganic-fertilizer-fertilized and unfertilized control pastures. these findings suggest that the use of sewage sludge as a fertilizer in pastures may lead to an accumulation of potentially harmful chemicals in the food chain, which may have implications for animal and human health. further studies are needed to evaluate the long-term effects of these chemicals on animal and human health.", "pol_abstract": "\n\nour research examined specific tissues from grazing ewes and their lambs, analyzing the concentrations of alkylphenols and phthalates in tissues from pastures fertilized with either sewage sludge or inorganic fertilizer. we discovered that all animals and tissues had relatively low mean tissue concentrations of alkylphenols (< 10\u2013400 \u03bcg/kg), while phthalates were present in high concentrations (> 20,000 \u03bcg/kg in many tissue samples) in both control and treated animals. our findings suggest that the use of sludge as a fertilizer did not consistently increase the levels of alkylphenols or phthalates in the tissues of animals grazing on treated pastures compared to those in control animals.", "mix_abstract": "we studied selected tissues from ewes and their lambs that were grazing pastures fertilized with either sewage sludge ( treated ) or inorganic fertilizer ( control ) and determined concentrations of alkylphenols and phthalates in these tissues  the mean tissue concentrations of alkylphenols were relatively low (<10\u2013400 \u03bcg/kg) in all animals and tissues. phthalates were detected in the tissues of both control and treated animals at relatively high concentrations (>20,000 \u03bcg/kg in many tissue samples). however, the use of sludge as fertilizer was not consistently associated with increased concentrations of either alkylphenols or phthalates in the tissues of animals grazing treated pastures, compared to levels in control animal tissues."}
{"title": "prognostic value of protocadherin10 ( pcdh10 ) methylation in serum of prostate_cancer patients", "abstract": "background prostate_cancer is a heterogeneous malignancy with outcome difficult to predict . currently , there is an urgent need to identify novel biomarkers that can accurately predict patient outcome and improve the treatment strategy . the aim of this study was to investigate the methylation status of pcdh10 in serum of prostate_cancer patients and its potential relevance to clinicopathological features and prognosis . material/methods the methylation status of pcdh10 in serum of 171 primary prostate_cancer patients and 65 controls was evaluated by methylation-specific pcr ( msp ) , after which the relationship between pcdh10 methylation and clinicopathologic features was evaluated .", "gen_abstract": "\n\nthis study aims to evaluate the prognostic value of protocadherin10 (pcdh10) methylation in the serum of prostate cancer patients. the study involves the analysis of dna methylation patterns of pcdh10 in serum samples obtained from a cohort of prostate cancer patients. the results of the analysis will be used to determine the correlation between pcdh10 methylation and prostate cancer prognosis. the findings of this study have the potential to contribute to the development of non-invasive prognostic biomarkers for prostate cancer, which can aid in the early detection and management of this disease.", "pol_abstract": "prostate cancer is a heterogeneous malignancy with a challenging prognosis prediction. identifying novel biomarkers that can accurately predict patient outcome and improve treatment strategies is urgently needed. this study aimed to investigate the methylation status of pcdh10 in the serum of prostate cancer patients, its potential relevance to clinicopathological features, and prognosis. methylation-specific pcr (msp) was used to evaluate the methylation status of pcdh10 in the serum of 171 primary prostate cancer patients and 65 controls. the relationship between pcdh10 methylation and clinicopathologic features was then assessed.", "mix_abstract": "background: prostate cancer is a heterogeneous malignancy with a difficult-to-predict outcome.  currently , there is an urgent need to identify novel biomarkers that can accurately predict patient outcome and improve the treatment strategy  \n\nthe objective of this study was to examine the methylation status of pcdh10 in the serum of prostate cancer patients and its potential correlation with clinicopathological characteristics and prognosis. \n\nmaterials and methods: the methylation status of pcdh10 in the serum of 171 primary prostate cancer patients and 65 controls was assessed using methylation-specific pcr (msp). following this, the association between pcdh10 methylation and clinicopathological features was investigated."}
{"title": "neuroprotective_effect of dexmedetomidine on hyperoxia-induced toxicity in the neonatal rat brain", "abstract": "dexmedetomidine is a highly selective agonist of \u03b1 2-receptors with sedative , anxiolytic , analgesic , and anesthetic properties . neuroprotective_effects of dexmedetomidine have been reported in various brain injury models . in the present study , we investigated the effects of dexmedetomidine on neurodegeneration , oxidative stress markers , and inflammation following the induction of hyperoxia in neonatal rats . six-day-old wistar rats received different concentrations of dexmedetomidine ( 1 , 5 , or 10 \u00b5 g/kg bodyweight ) and were exposed to 80 % oxygen for 24 h. sex-matched littermates kept in room air and injected with normal saline or dexmedetomidine served as controls .", "gen_abstract": "\n\nthis study aimed to investigate the potential neuroprotective effect of dexmedetomidine, a selective alpha-2 adrenergic receptor agonist, on hyperoxia-induced toxicity in the neonatal rat brain. the study utilized a rat model of neonatal hyperoxia exposure and assessed the effects of dexmedetomidine on brain histopathology, oxidative stress markers, and neuronal cell death. results revealed that dexmedetomidine administration significantly reduced hyperoxia-induced oxidative stress and neuronal cell death in the rat brain, indicating its potential as a neuroprotective agent in neonatal hyperoxia-induced brain injury. these findings could have important implications for the clinical use of dexmedetomidine in preventing or treating neurotoxicity associated with neonatal hyperoxia exposure.", "pol_abstract": "dexmedetomidine, a potent \u03b12-receptor agonist, possesses sedative, anxiolytic, analgesic, and anesthetic properties. previous studies have suggested that dexmedetomidine may have neuroprotective effects in various brain injury models. this study aimed to investigate the impact of dexmedetomidine on neurodegeneration, oxidative stress markers, and inflammation induced by hyperoxia in neonatal rats. six-day-old wistar rats were exposed to 80% oxygen for 24 hours and received different concentrations of dexmedetomidine (1, 5, or 10 \u00b5g/kg bodyweight). control groups consisted of sex-matched littermates kept in room air and injected with normal saline or dexmedetomidine.", "mix_abstract": "the compound known as dexmedetomidine is an \u03b12-receptor agonist that is highly selective and possesses sedative, anxiolytic, analgesic, and anesthetic properties. studies have reported that it also has neuroprotective effects in various models of brain injury. in this particular study, the focus was on the impact of dexmedetomidine on neurodegeneration, oxidative stress markers, and inflammation in neonatal rats that had been exposed to hyperoxia.  six-day-old wistar rats received different concentrations of dexmedetomidine ( 1 , 5 , or 10 \u00b5 g/kg bodyweight ) and were exposed to 80 % oxygen for 24 h \"sex-matched littermates kept under normal environmental conditions and administered either normal saline or dexmedetomidine were utilized as control subjects.\""}
{"title": "comparison of apparent diffusion coefficient and intravoxel incoherent motion for differentiating among glioblastoma , metastasis , and lymphoma focusing on diffusion-related parameter", "abstract": "background and purpose brain tumor cellularity has been assessed by using apparent diffusion coefficient ( adc ) . however , the adc value might be influenced by both perfusion and true molecular diffusion , and the perfusion effect on adc can limit the reliability of adc in the characterization of tumor cellularity , especially , in hypervascular brain tumors . in contrast , the ivim technique estimates parameter values for diffusion and perfusion effects separately . the purpose of our study was to compare adc and ivim for differentiating among glioblastoma , metastatic tumor , and primary cns lymphoma ( pcnsl ) focusing on diffusion-related parameter .", "gen_abstract": "\n\nthis study aimed to compare the effectiveness of apparent diffusion coefficient (adc) and intravoxel incoherent motion (ivim) in differentiating among glioblastoma, metastasis, and lymphoma based on diffusion-related parameters. magnetic resonance imaging data of patients diagnosed with glioblastoma, metastasis, and lymphoma were analyzed using both adc and ivim. the results showed that ivim parameters were better able to differentiate among the three types of brain tumors than adc alone. the study concludes that ivim could be a valuable tool in the differential diagnosis of brain tumors, especially when combined with adc measurements.", "pol_abstract": "\n\nbackground and objective:\nassessment of brain tumor cellularity has traditionally relied on the apparent diffusion coefficient (adc), which may be influenced by both perfusion and true molecular diffusion. the reliability of adc in characterizing tumor cellularity, particularly in hypervascular brain tumors, may be limited by the perfusion effect on adc. on the other hand, the intravoxel incoherent motion (ivim) technique separately estimates parameter values for diffusion and perfusion effects. this study aimed to compare adc and ivim in differentiating between glioblastoma, metastatic tumors, and primary cns lymphoma (pcnsl), focusing on diffusion-related parameters.", "mix_abstract": "background and purpose brain tumor cellularity has been assessed by using apparent diffusion coefficient ( adc )  \n\nalthough the adc value may be affected by both perfusion and true molecular diffusion, the perfusion effect can limit the reliability of adc in characterizing tumor cellularity, particularly in hypervascular brain tumors. in contrast, the ivim technique separately estimates parameter values for diffusion and perfusion effects. our study aimed to differentiate glioblastoma, metastatic tumors, and primary cns lymphoma (pcnsl) using diffusion-related parameters by comparing adc and ivim."}
{"title": "high prevalence of diagnosis of diabetes , depression , anxiety , hypertension , asthma and copd in the total population of stockholm , sweden \u2013 a challenge for public health", "abstract": "background there is limited knowledge on the prevalence of disease in total populations . such studies have historically been difficult to conduct but the development of health data registers has facilitated large-scale studies on recorded diagnoses in entire regions . the aim of this study was to analyze the prevalence of diagnosis of six common diseases in the swedish capital region . methods the study population included all living persons who resided in stockholm county , sweden , on december 31 st 2011 ( n = 2 093 717 ) . information on all consultations between 2007 and 2011 was obtained from primary health care , specialist outpatient care and inpatient care .", "gen_abstract": "\n\nthis study examines the prevalence of six chronic diseases - diabetes, depression, anxiety, hypertension, asthma, and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (copd) - in the total population of stockholm, sweden. the findings reveal a high prevalence of these chronic diseases, which poses a significant challenge for public health in the region. the study underscores the urgent need for effective preventive strategies and comprehensive healthcare management to address the growing burden of chronic diseases and improve the overall health outcomes of the population.", "pol_abstract": "background:\nstudying the prevalence of diseases in total populations has been historically challenging, but the advent of health data registers has enabled large-scale studies on recorded diagnoses in entire regions. however, there is still limited knowledge on the subject.\n\nobjective:\nthe objective of this study was to examine the prevalence of six common diseases in the swedish capital region.\n\nmethods:\nall individuals residing in stockholm county, sweden, on december 31st, 2011 (n=2,093,717), were included in the study population. primary health care, specialist outpatient care, and inpatient care consultations between 2007 and 2011 were analyzed to obtain information on all consultations.", "mix_abstract": "background: \nlimited knowledge exists regarding the prevalence of disease in total populations. historically, such studies have been challenging to conduct. however, the development of health data registers has facilitated large-scale studies on recorded diagnoses across entire regions.  the aim of this study was to analyze the prevalence of diagnosis of six common diseases in the swedish capital region  the methods used in this study involved gathering information on all consultations that took place between 2007 and 2011 in primary health care, specialist outpatient care, and inpatient care. the study population consisted of all individuals who were living in stockholm county, sweden on december 31st, 2011, which totaled 2,093,717 people."}
{"title": "quercetin decreases claudin-2 expression mediated by up-regulation of microrna mir-16 in lung_adenocarcinoma a549 cells", "abstract": "claudin-2 is highly expressed in human lung_adenocarcinoma tissues and cells . knockdown of claudin-2 decreases cell proliferation and migration . claudin-2 may be a novel target for lung_adenocarcinoma . however , there are no physiologically active substances of foods which decrease claudin-2 expression . we here found that quercetin , a flavonoid present in fruits and vegetables , time- and concentration-dependently decreases claudin-2 expression in lung_adenocarcinoma a549 cells . in the present study , we examined what regulatory mechanism is involved in the decrease in claudin-2 expression by quercetin . claudin-2 expression was decreased by ly-294002 , a phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase ( pi3-k ) inhibitor , and u0126 , a mek inhibitor .", "gen_abstract": "\n\nthis study investigates the effect of quercetin, a flavonoid with known anti-tumor properties, on claudin-2 expression in lung adenocarcinoma a549 cells. the results indicate that quercetin can decrease claudin-2 expression in a549 cells by up-regulating microrna mir-16. claudin-2 is a protein that plays a role in tight junction formation and has been linked to cancer progression. these findings suggest that quercetin may have therapeutic potential as a treatment for lung adenocarcinoma by targeting claudin-2 expression through mir-16 up-regulation.", "pol_abstract": "\n\nthe expression of claudin-2 is high in both human lung adenocarcinoma tissues and cells. knocking down claudin-2 leads to a reduction in cell proliferation and migration, indicating that it could be a potential target for treating lung adenocarcinoma. despite the absence of any physiologically active substances in foods that decrease claudin-2 expression, quercetin, a flavonoid found in fruits and vegetables, has been found to reduce claudin-2 expression in lung adenocarcinoma a549 cells in a time- and concentration-dependent manner. this study investigates the regulatory mechanisms involved in quercetin-induced downregulation of claudin-2 expression. results indicate that ly-294002, a phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (pi3-k) inhibitor, and u0126, a mek inhibitor, can also decrease claudin-2 expression.", "mix_abstract": "human lung adenocarcinoma tissues and cells exhibit high levels of claudin-2 expression. suppression of claudin-2 expression results in decreased cell proliferation and migration, suggesting its potential as a new target for lung adenocarcinoma treatment.  however , there are no physiologically active substances of foods which decrease claudin-2 expression    we here found that quercetin , a flavonoid present in fruits and vegetables , time- and concentration-dependently decreases claudin-2 expression in lung_adenocarcinoma a549 cells  the objective of our research was to investigate the regulatory mechanism responsible for the reduction of claudin-2 expression caused by quercetin. we found that the inhibition of phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (pi3-k) by ly-294002 and mek by u0126 resulted in a decrease in claudin-2 expression."}
{"title": "scutellarin attenuates hypertension-induced expression of brain toll-like_receptor_4/nuclear factor kappa b", "abstract": "hypertension is associated with low-grade inflammation , and toll-like_receptor_4 ( tlr4 ) has been shown to be linked to the development and maintenance of hypertension . this study aimed to investigate the effects of scutellarin ( administered by oral gavage daily for 2 weeks ) on brain tlr4/nuclear factor kappa b- ( nf- \u03ba b- ) mediated inflammation and blood pressure in renovascular hypertensive ( using the 2-kidney , 2-clip method ) rats . immunofluorescence and western immunoblot analyses revealed that hypertension contributed to the activation of tlr4 and nf- \u03ba b , accompanied by significantly enhanced expression of proinflammatory mediators , such as tumor_necrosis_factor- \u03b1 ( tnf- \u03b1 ) , interleukin-1 \u03b2 ( il-1 \u03b2 ) , and interleukin-18 ( il-18", "gen_abstract": "\n\nhypertension is a common chronic disease that affects millions of people worldwide and is a major risk factor for cardiovascular disease. recent studies have shown that toll-like receptor 4 (tlr4) and nuclear factor kappa b (nf-\u03bab) play an important role in the development of hypertension. scutellarin, a flavonoid compound extracted from the herb erigeron breviscapus, has been shown to have a range of pharmacological properties, including anti-inflammatory and antioxidant effects. in this study, we investigate the effects of scutellarin on hypertension-induced expression of tlr4 and nf-\u03bab in the brain. our results demonstrate that scutellarin significantly attenuates hypertension-induced tlr4 and nf-\u03bab expression in the brain, indicating a potential therapeutic effect of scutellarin in the treatment of hypertension and associated cardiovascular diseases.", "pol_abstract": "this study aimed to explore the impact of scutellarin, administered orally for two weeks, on blood pressure and brain inflammation mediated by toll-like receptor 4 (tlr4) and nuclear factor kappa b (nf-\u03bab) in renovascular hypertensive rats using the 2-kidney, 2-clip method. hypertension was found to activate tlr4 and nf-\u03bab, leading to increased expression of proinflammatory mediators such as tumor necrosis factor-alpha (tnf-\u03b1), interleukin-1 beta (il-1\u03b2), and interleukin-18 (il-18), as revealed by immunofluorescence and western immunoblot analyses.", "mix_abstract": "hypertension is commonly associated with low-grade inflammation, and there is evidence linking toll-like receptor 4 (tlr4) to the development and maintenance of hypertension. the purpose of this study was to examine the impact of scutellarin, administered by daily oral gavage for a two-week period, on brain inflammation mediated by tlr4/nuclear factor kappa b (nf-\u03bab), as well as blood pressure in renovascular hypertensive rats (using the 2-kidney, 2-clip method).  immunofluorescence and western immunoblot analyses revealed that hypertension contributed to the activation of tlr4 and nf- \u03ba b , accompanied by significantly enhanced expression of proinflammatory mediators , such as tumor_necrosis_factor- \u03b1 ( tnf- \u03b1 ) , interleukin-1 \u03b2 ( il-1 \u03b2 ) , and interleukin-18 ( il-18"}
{"title": "stem_cell_factor and its soluble receptor ( c-kit ) in serum of asthmatic patients- correlation with disease severity", "abstract": "background scf ( stem_cell_factor ) is a pleiotropic cytokine exerting its role at different stages of bone marrow development and affecting eosinophil activation , mast cells and basophil chemotaxis and survival . the aim of the study was to assess concentration of scf and its soluble receptor c-kit ( sc-kit ) in peripheral blood of patients with asthma referring it to asthma severity and phenotype . methods the study involved 107 patients with bronchial asthma , well characterized with respect to severity and 21 healthy controls . concentration of scf and sc-kit in the patients serum were measured by elisa method .", "gen_abstract": "\n\nthis study aims to investigate the correlation between the levels of stem cell factor (scf) and its soluble receptor, c-kit, in the serum of asthmatic patients and the severity of their disease. the levels of scf and c-kit were measured using enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (elisa) in serum samples obtained from asthmatic patients of varying severity and healthy controls. the results showed that the levels of scf and c-kit were significantly higher in asthmatic patients compared to healthy controls. additionally, the levels of scf and c-kit were found to be positively correlated with the severity of asthma, suggesting their potential use as biomarkers for asthma severity. these findings provide insights into the pathophysiology of asthma and may have clinical implications in the diagnosis and management of the disease.", "pol_abstract": "\n\nbackground: scf, a pleiotropic cytokine, plays a role in various stages of bone marrow development and affects the activation of eosinophils, chemotaxis and survival of mast cells and basophils. the study aimed to evaluate the concentration of scf and its soluble receptor c-kit (sc-kit) in the peripheral blood of asthma patients and relate it to asthma severity and phenotype.\n\nmethods: the study involved 107 patients with bronchial asthma, classified by severity, and 21 healthy controls. the concentration of scf and sc-kit in the patients' serum was measured using the elisa method.", "mix_abstract": "background:\nstem cell factor (scf) is a pleiotropic cytokine that plays a crucial role in various stages of bone marrow development. it also affects eosinophil activation, mast cells, and basophil chemotaxis and survival. the aim of this study was to evaluate the concentration of scf and its soluble receptor c-kit (sc-kit) in the peripheral blood of asthma patients and correlate it with asthma severity and phenotype.\n\nrevised:\nthe background of this study is based on the pleiotropic cytokine, stem cell factor (scf), which plays a crucial role in different stages of bone marrow development, and impacts eosinophil activation, mast cells, and basophil chemotaxis and survival. the objective of this study is to assess the concentration of scf and its soluble receptor c-kit (sc-kit) in the peripheral blood of asthma patients and evaluate their correlation with asthma severity and phenotype.  methods the study involved 107 patients with bronchial asthma , well characterized with respect to severity and 21 healthy controls  the elisa method was used to measure the concentration of scf and sc-kit in the patients' serum."}
{"title": "effects of 6-month eicosapentaenoic_acid treatment on postprandial hyperglycemia , hyperlipidemia , insulin secretion ability , and concomitant endothelial_dysfunction among newly-diagnosed impaired_glucose_metabolism patients with coronary_artery_disease . an open label , single blinded , prospective randomized controlled trial", "abstract": "background recent experimental studies have revealed that n-3 fatty acids , such as eicosapentaenoic_acid ( epa ) regulate postprandial insulin secretion , and correct postprandial glucose and lipid abnormalities . however , the effects of 6-month epa treatment on postprandial hyperglycemia and hyperlipidemia , insulin secretion , and concomitant endothelial_dysfunction remain unknown in patients with impaired_glucose_metabolism ( igm ) and coronary_artery_disease ( cad ) . methods and results we randomized 107 newly diagnosed igm patients with cad to receive either 1800 mg/day of epa ( epa group , n = 53 ) or no epa ( n = 54 ) .", "gen_abstract": "\n\nthis study investigates the effects of eicosapentaenoic acid (epa) treatment on several health markers among newly-diagnosed patients with impaired glucose metabolism and coronary artery disease. the study is a 6-month open label, single blinded, prospective randomized controlled trial. the primary outcomes assessed are postprandial hyperglycemia, hyperlipidemia, insulin secretion ability, and endothelial dysfunction. the study aims to shed light on the potential benefits of epa treatment for patients with these conditions.", "pol_abstract": "recent experimental studies have indicated that n-3 fatty acids, including eicosapentaenoic acid (epa), can regulate insulin secretion after meals and address abnormal glucose and lipid levels that arise post-meal. however, the impact of 6 months of epa treatment on post-meal hyperglycemia and hyperlipidemia, insulin secretion, and endothelial dysfunction in patients with impaired glucose metabolism (igm) and coronary artery disease (cad) remains unknown. in this study, we assigned 107 newly diagnosed igm patients with cad to either a group receiving 1800 mg/day of epa (epa group, n=53) or a group not receiving epa (n=54).", "mix_abstract": "background:\nrecent experiments have demonstrated that n-3 fatty acids, particularly eicosapentaenoic acid (epa), can regulate insulin secretion after meals and alleviate postprandial abnormalities in glucose and lipid levels. however, the impact of a six-month epa treatment on postprandial hyperglycemia, hyperlipidemia, insulin secretion, and concurrent endothelial dysfunction among patients with impaired glucose metabolism (igm) and coronary artery disease (cad) is yet to be determined.\n\nmethods and results:\nwe conducted a randomized study involving 107 newly diagnosed igm patients with cad. the participants were assigned randomly to either receive 1800 mg/day of epa (epa group, n=53) or no epa (n=54)."}
{"title": "dc-based immunotherapy combined with low-dose methotrexate effective in the treatment of advanced_cia in mice", "abstract": "we have previously demonstrated that semimature dendritic cell- ( smdc- ) based immunotherapy is effective for the treatment of collagen-induced arthritis ( cia ) prior to disease onset . in the present study , we examined the efficacy of combination therapy with smdcs and methotrexate ( mtx ) in advanced cia with a score of 2-3 . combination therapy with low-dose mtx and type ii collagen- ( cii- ) pulsed smdcs ( cii-smdcs ) was more effective in inhibiting disease progression than high or low-dose mtx alone or a combination of high dose mtx and cii-smdcs . the effect of cii-smdcs alone was also comparable to the combination therapy .", "gen_abstract": "\n\nthis study aimed to investigate the efficacy of combining dc-based immunotherapy with low-dose methotrexate (mtx) for treating advanced collagen-induced arthritis (cia) in mice. the results showed that the combination therapy effectively suppressed the progression of cia in mice and improved their clinical symptoms, as evidenced by reduced joint swelling, erythema, and stiffness. additionally, the combined treatment reduced the production of pro-inflammatory cytokines and increased the levels of anti-inflammatory cytokines. these findings suggest that dc-based immunotherapy combined with low-dose mtx could be a promising approach for the treatment of advanced cia in humans.", "pol_abstract": "\n\nin a previous study, we showed that using semimature dendritic cells (smdcs) for immunotherapy before the onset of collagen-induced arthritis (cia) is effective. in this study, we investigated the effectiveness of combining smdcs with methotrexate (mtx) for treating advanced cia with a score of 2-3. we found that combining low-dose mtx with type ii collagen-pulsed smdcs (cii-smdcs) was more effective at inhibiting disease progression than using high or low-dose mtx alone or a combination of high dose mtx and cii-smdcs. additionally, using cii-smdcs alone showed a comparable effect to the combination therapy.", "mix_abstract": "previously, we have demonstrated that immunotherapy using semimature dendritic cells (smdcs) is effective for treating collagen-induced arthritis (cia) before the onset of the disease. in this study, we investigated the effectiveness of a combination therapy using smdcs and methotrexate (mtx) for advanced cia with a score of 2-3. the combination therapy using low-dose mtx and smdcs pulsed with type ii collagen (cii-smdcs) was found to be more effective in preventing the progression of the disease than using high or low-dose mtx alone, or a combination of high-dose mtx and cii-smdcs.  the effect of cii-smdcs alone was also comparable to the combination therapy"}
{"title": "trends in the management and outcomes of patients admitted with acute_coronary_syndrome complicated by cardiogenic_shock over the past decade : real world data from the acute_coronary_syndrome_israeli_survey ( acsis )", "abstract": "registries and other cohorts have demonstrated that early revascularization improve the survival of patients presenting with cardiogenic_shock ( cs ) completing aute coronary syndrome ( acs ) . our aim was to describe the change in the clinical characteristics of these patients and their management and their outcome . the study population comprised 224 patients who were admitted with acs complicated by cardiogenic_shock who were enrolled in the prospective biannual acute_coronary_syndrome_israeli_surveys ( acsis ) between 2000 and 2013 ( 1.7 % of all patients admitted with acs during the study period ) . survey periods were categorized as early ( years 2000-2004 ) and late ( year 2006-2013 ) .", "gen_abstract": "\n\nthis study aimed to investigate the trends in the management and outcomes of patients admitted with acute coronary syndrome (acs) complicated by cardiogenic shock over the past decade, using real-world data from the acute coronary syndrome israeli survey (acsis). the study analyzed data from over 7,000 patients and found that there have been significant improvements in the management of acs complicated by cardiogenic shock, including an increase in the use of early revascularization and mechanical circulatory support devices. however, the study also identified areas for improvement, such as the need for better identification of patients at high risk of cardiogenic shock and the need for more effective therapies to improve outcomes in these patients. overall, the findings suggest that ongoing efforts are needed to optimize the management of acs complicated by cardiogenic shock to improve patient outcomes.", "pol_abstract": "the survival rates of patients with cardiogenic shock (cs) following acute coronary syndrome (acs) can be improved with early revascularization, as demonstrated by registries and other cohorts. our objective was to examine changes in the clinical characteristics, management, and outcomes of such patients. the study involved 224 individuals who were admitted to the hospital with acs complicated by cardiogenic shock and were part of the acute coronary syndrome israeli surveys (acsis), a prospective biannual survey conducted between 2000 and 2013. during the study period, these patients accounted for 1.7% of all patients admitted with acs. the survey periods were divided into early (2000-2004) and late (2006-2013).", "mix_abstract": "the effectiveness of early revascularization for improving the survival of patients with cardiogenic shock (cs) and acute coronary syndrome (acs) has been demonstrated by registries and other cohorts. this study aimed to analyze changes in the clinical characteristics, management, and outcomes of these patients. the study population included 224 patients with acs complicated by cs who were enrolled in the biannual acute coronary syndrome israeli surveys (acsis) from 2000 to 2013. 7 % of all patients admitted with acs during the study period )  the survey timeframes were classified into two groups: early (covering years 2000-2004) and late (encompassing the year 2006-2013)."}
{"title": "galectin-3 deficiency exacerbates hyperglycemia and the endothelial response to diabetes", "abstract": "background diabetes promotes maladaptive changes in the endothelium that lead to its dysfunction and contribute to the vascular pathology of diabetes . we have previously reported the up-regulation of galectin-3 , a \u03b2-galactoside-binding lectin , in the endothelium and sera of diabetic mice , implicating this molecule in diabetic vasculopathy and suggesting its potential as a biomarker of the disease . therefore , we sought to assess the role of galectin-3 in the vascular pathology of diabetes . methods galectin-3 knockout mice ( ko ) and wild-type mice ( wt ) were fed either a high-fat diet ( hfd ) ( 60 % fat calories ) to produce insulin resistant diabetes , or standard chow ( 12 % fat calories ) , and their metabolic and endothelial responses were", "gen_abstract": "\n\ndiabetes is a metabolic disorder characterized by high blood sugar levels, which can lead to a range of complications including cardiovascular disease. galectin-3, a carbohydrate-binding protein, has been implicated in the development of insulin resistance and other aspects of diabetes. this study explores the role of galectin-3 in the endothelial response to diabetes, specifically looking at how galectin-3 deficiency affects hyperglycemia and endothelial function. the findings suggest that galectin-3 deficiency exacerbates hyperglycemia and leads to increased endothelial dysfunction in response to diabetes, highlighting the potential importance of galectin-3 in the pathogenesis of diabetes-related complications. these results may inform the development of new therapeutic approaches for treating or preventing diabetes and its associated complications.", "pol_abstract": "background:\nendothelial dysfunction is a common complication of diabetes, which is caused by maladaptive changes in the endothelium. galectin-3, a \u03b2-galactoside-binding lectin, has previously been found to be up-regulated in the endothelium and sera of diabetic mice. this suggests that galectin-3 may play a role in diabetic vasculopathy and could be a potential biomarker for the disease. therefore, this study aimed to investigate the role of galectin-3 in the vascular pathology of diabetes.\n\nmethods:\nto assess the role of galectin-3 in diabetes-induced vascular pathology, galectin-3 knockout mice (ko) and wild-type mice (wt) were fed either a high-fat diet (hfd) containing 60% fat calories to produce insulin-resistant diabetes or standard chow containing 12% fat calories. metabolic and endothelial responses were then measured.\n\n(note: the original text was already quite concise, so there was little room for further simplification without changing the meaning of the text.)", "mix_abstract": "the context is related to the impact of diabetes on endothelium dysfunction and vascular pathology, particularly focusing on galectin-3 as a potential biomarker. here's a rephrased version:\n\nin individuals with diabetes, the endothelium undergoes maladaptive changes that impair its function and contribute to vascular complications. our previous research has highlighted the overexpression of galectin-3, a lectin that binds to \u03b2-galactosides, in the endothelium and serum of diabetic mice. this suggests galectin-3's involvement in diabetic vasculopathy and its potential as a disease biomarker. therefore, we aimed to investigate the role of galectin-3 in the vascular pathology of diabetes.  methods galectin-3 knockout mice ( ko ) and wild-type mice ( wt ) were fed either a high-fat diet ( hfd ) ( 60 % fat calories ) to produce insulin resistant diabetes , or standard chow ( 12 % fat calories ) , and their metabolic and endothelial responses were"}
{"title": "cardiotoxicity of anthracycline agents for the treatment of cancer : systematic review and meta-analysis of randomised controlled trials", "abstract": "background we conducted a systematic review and meta-analysis to clarify the risk of early and late cardiotoxicity of anthracycline agents in patients treated for breast or ovarian cancer , lymphoma , myeloma or sarcoma . methods randomized controlled trials were sought using comprehensive searches of electronic databases in june 2008 . reference lists of retrieved articles were also scanned for additional articles . outcomes investigated were early or late clinical and sub-clinical cardiotoxicity . trial quality was assessed , and data were pooled through meta-analysis where appropriate . results fifty-five published rcts were included ; the majority were on women with advanced breast cancer .", "gen_abstract": "\n\nthis systematic review and meta-analysis aims to evaluate the cardiotoxic effects of anthracycline agents, which are commonly used for cancer treatment. the study reviews randomized controlled trials and investigates the cardiotoxicity associated with these drugs. the findings of this research provide important information to clinicians and researchers on the risk factors and severity of cardiotoxicity associated with anthracyclines, which may ultimately contribute to improved patient care and treatment strategies for cancer patients.", "pol_abstract": "in this study, we conducted a systematic review and meta-analysis to determine the risk of early and late cardiotoxicity in patients treated for breast or ovarian cancer, lymphoma, myeloma or sarcoma with anthracycline agents. the search for randomized controlled trials was carried out comprehensively in electronic databases in june 2008, and additional articles were identified from reference lists of retrieved articles. the outcomes investigated were early or late clinical and sub-clinical cardiotoxicity. the trial quality was evaluated, and where appropriate, data were pooled through meta-analysis. the study included fifty-five published rcts, with the majority of trials conducted on women with advanced breast cancer.", "mix_abstract": "in this study, we performed a systematic review and meta-analysis to elucidate the risk of early and late cardiotoxicity associated with the use of anthracycline agents in patients receiving treatment for breast or ovarian cancer, lymphoma, myeloma, or sarcoma. our methodology involved conducting thorough searches of electronic databases in june 2008 to identify relevant randomized controlled trials. we also examined the reference lists of retrieved articles to uncover any additional relevant studies.  outcomes investigated were early or late clinical and sub-clinical cardiotoxicity  the quality of the trials was assessed, and data were pooled through meta-analysis where appropriate. a total of fifty-five published randomized controlled trials (rcts) were included in the analysis, with the majority of them focusing on women with advanced breast cancer."}
{"title": "dynamic imaging of coherent sources reveals different network connectivity underlying the generation and perpetuation of epileptic_seizures", "abstract": "the concept of focal epilepsies includes a seizure origin in brain regions with hyper synchronous activity ( epileptogenic zone and seizure onset zone ) and a complex epileptic network of different brain areas involved in the generation , propagation , and modulation of seizures . the purpose of this work was to study functional and effective connectivity between regions involved in networks of epileptic_seizures . the beginning and middle part of focal seizures from ictal surface eeg data were analyzed using dynamic imaging of coherent sources ( dics ) , an inverse solution in the frequency domain which describes neuronal networks and coherences of oscillatory brain activities .", "gen_abstract": "\n\nepileptic seizures are caused by abnormal synchronization of neural activity in the brain, but the underlying mechanisms are not fully understood. in this study, we used dynamic imaging techniques to investigate the network connectivity underlying the generation and perpetuation of epileptic seizures. we found that coherent sources in different brain regions were involved in both the initiation and propagation of seizures, but the patterns of connectivity between these sources were distinct. our findings suggest that interventions targeting specific network connections may be more effective in controlling seizures than those targeting the entire network indiscriminately.", "pol_abstract": "\n\nthis work aims to explore the concept of focal epilepsies, which refer to seizures originating in brain regions with hyper synchronous activity, namely the epileptogenic and seizure onset zones. these seizures involve a complex network of different brain areas responsible for their generation, propagation, and modulation. the study focuses on investigating the functional and effective connectivity between these regions using dynamic imaging of coherent sources (dics), an inverse solution in the frequency domain that characterizes neuronal networks and coherence of oscillatory brain activities. specifically, the analysis utilizes ictal surface eeg data to examine the beginning and middle stages of focal seizures.", "mix_abstract": "the idea of focal epilepsies pertains to seizures that arise from brain regions exhibiting high levels of synchronized activity, specifically the epileptogenic zone and seizure onset zone. additionally, the occurrence of seizures involves a complicated network of various brain regions responsible for the production, spread, and modulation of seizure activity. the objective of this study was to explore the functional and effective connections between these regions involved in epileptic seizure networks. dynamic imaging of coherent sources (dics), a frequency-domain inverse solution that characterizes neuronal networks and coherence in oscillatory brain activity, was utilized to analyze the beginning and middle stages of focal seizures using ictal surface eeg data."}
{"title": "the interleukin-1 receptor antagonist anakinra improves endothelial_dysfunction in streptozotocin-induced diabetic rats", "abstract": "background endothelial_dysfunction is a crucial early phenomenon in vascular diseases linked to diabetes mellitus and associated to enhanced oxidative stress . there is increasing evidence about the role for pro-inflammatory cytokines , like interleukin-1\u03b2 ( il-1\u03b2 ) , in developing diabetic vasculopathy . we aimed to determine the possible involvement of this cytokine in the development of diabetic endothelial_dysfunction , analysing whether anakinra , an antagonist of il-1 receptors , could reduce this endothelial alteration by interfering with pro-oxidant and pro-inflammatory pathways into the vascular wall . results in control and two weeks evolution streptozotocin-induced diabetic rats , either untreated or receiving anakinra , vascular reactivity and nadph oxidase activity were measured , respectively , in isolated rings and homogenates from mesenteric microvessels , while nuclear factor ( nf ) -\u03bab activation was determined in", "gen_abstract": "\n\nthe study investigated the effect of the interleukin-1 receptor antagonist anakinra on endothelial dysfunction in streptozotocin-induced diabetic rats. the research found that anakinra treatment resulted in improved endothelial function, as evidenced by enhanced vasodilation, decreased oxidative stress, and reduced inflammatory markers in the diabetic rats. these results suggest that anakinra may have therapeutic potential for treating endothelial dysfunction in diabetic patients.", "pol_abstract": "background:\nendothelial dysfunction is a crucial early event in vascular diseases associated with diabetes mellitus, and is linked to enhanced oxidative stress. pro-inflammatory cytokines, such as interleukin-1\u03b2 (il-1\u03b2), have been increasingly implicated in the development of diabetic vasculopathy. in this study, we aimed to investigate the potential involvement of il-1\u03b2 in diabetic endothelial dysfunction, and whether treatment with anakinra, an il-1 receptor antagonist, could reduce this dysfunction by modulating pro-inflammatory and pro-oxidant pathways in the vascular wall.\n\nresults:\nvascular reactivity and nadph oxidase activity were measured in isolated rings and homogenates from mesenteric microvessels, respectively, in both untreated and anakinra-treated control rats, as well as in streptozotocin-induced diabetic rats at two weeks of evolution. additionally, nuclear factor (nf)-\u03bab activation was evaluated in the same samples.", "mix_abstract": "the impairment of endothelial function is a significant initial event in vascular diseases associated with diabetes mellitus and is related to elevated levels of oxidative stress. growing evidence suggests that pro-inflammatory cytokines, such as interleukin-1\u03b2 (il-1\u03b2), play a role in the progression of diabetic vasculopathy. our objective was to investigate the potential role of il-1\u03b2 in the development of diabetic endothelial dysfunction and to determine whether anakinra, an antagonist of il-1 receptors, could alleviate this dysfunction by disrupting pro-inflammatory and pro-oxidant pathways in the vascular wall.  results in control and two weeks evolution streptozotocin-induced diabetic rats , either untreated or receiving anakinra , vascular reactivity and nadph oxidase activity were measured , respectively , in isolated rings and homogenates from mesenteric microvessels , while nuclear factor ( nf ) -\u03bab activation was determined in"}
{"title": "a phase i/ii study of irinotecan when added to 5-fluorouracil and leucovorin and pelvic radiation in locally advanced rectal_cancer : a colorectal clinical oncology group study", "abstract": "the objective of this study was to evaluate the maximum tolerated dose ( mtd ) and recommended dose of irinotecan administered as a 5-day schedule synchronously with 5-fluorouracil ( 5fu ) , leucovorin ( lv ) and preoperative pelvic radiation ( 45 gy ) for primary borderline/unresectable , locally advanced rectal_cancer . the study used escalating doses of intravenous irinotecan ( 6 , 8 , 10 , 12 , 14 , 16 , 18 , and 20 mg m \u22122 ) administered on days 1\u20135 and 29\u201333 followed by low dose lv ( 20 mg m \u22122 ) and 5fu ( 350 mg m \u22122 over 1 h ) in sequential cohorts .", "gen_abstract": "\n\nthis study aimed to evaluate the safety and efficacy of irinotecan when added to 5-fluorouracil, leucovorin, and pelvic radiation therapy in patients with locally advanced rectal cancer. a total of phase i/ii clinical trial enrolled patients were treated with the combination therapy and underwent surgical resection. the results showed promising outcomes in terms of tumor response and survival, suggesting that this treatment regimen could be a viable option for patients with locally advanced rectal cancer. overall, the study provides evidence for the potential benefit of incorporating irinotecan into the standard treatment protocol for this patient population.", "pol_abstract": "this study aimed to assess the recommended dose and maximum tolerated dose (mtd) of irinotecan administered synchronously with leucovorin (lv), 5-fluorouracil (5fu), and preoperative pelvic radiation (45 gy) for primary borderline/unresectable, locally advanced rectal cancer. the study utilized increasing doses of intravenous irinotecan (6, 8, 10, 12, 14, 16, 18, and 20 mg m\u22122) given on days 1-5 and 29-33, followed by low-dose lv (20 mg m\u22122) and 5fu (350 mg m\u22122 over 1 hour) in sequential cohorts.", "mix_abstract": "the aim of this study was to assess the recommended dose and maximum tolerated dose (mtd) of irinotecan, when administered in conjunction with 5-fluorouracil (5fu), leucovorin (lv), and preoperative pelvic radiation (45 gy) for primary borderline/unresectable, locally advanced rectal cancer. the study utilized a dose escalation design with intravenous irinotecan doses ranging from 6 to 20 mg m-2 administered on days 1-5 and 29-33, followed by low dose lv (20 mg m-2) and 5fu (350 mg m-2 over 1 h) in sequential cohorts."}
{"title": "apolipoprotein_e gene polymorphism is not a strong risk factor for diabetic_nephropathy and retinopathy in type_i_diabetes : case-control study", "abstract": "background the gene encoding apolipoprotein_e ( apoe ) has been proposed as a candidate gene for vascular complications in type_i_diabetes . this study aimed to investigate the influence of three-allelic variations in the apoe gene for the development of diabetic retinopathy and nephropathy . results neither apoe alleles frequencies or apoe genotypes frequencies differed between type i diabetic groups either with or without nephropathy . similar results were found for patients with and without diabetic retinopathy . conclusions apoe gene polymorphism does not determine genetic susceptibility for the development of diabetic retinopathy in type_i_diabetes patients . association between apoe gene polymorphism and diabetic_nephropathy may be weak or moderate , but not strong .", "gen_abstract": "\n\nthis case-control study aimed to investigate the relationship between apolipoprotein_e gene polymorphism and the development of diabetic nephropathy and retinopathy in patients with type 1 diabetes. the study analyzed the genetic data of a large sample of diabetic patients and found that apolipoprotein_e gene polymorphism is not a strong risk factor for the development of these complications. the results suggest that other genetic or environmental factors may play a more significant role in the pathogenesis of diabetic nephropathy and retinopathy. these findings have important implications for the diagnosis and management of type 1 diabetes and its associated complications.", "pol_abstract": "\n\nbackground:\nthe role of the apoe gene in vascular complications in type i diabetes has been suggested. this study aimed to investigate the impact of three-allelic variations in the apoe gene on the development of diabetic retinopathy and nephropathy.\n\nresults:\nthe frequencies of apoe alleles and genotypes were not different between type i diabetic patients with or without nephropathy. similar results were observed for patients with and without diabetic retinopathy.\n\nconclusions:\nthe genetic susceptibility for the development of diabetic retinopathy in type i diabetes patients is not determined by apoe gene polymorphism. the association between apoe gene polymorphism and diabetic nephropathy may be moderate or weak but not strong.", "mix_abstract": "background:\nthe gene encoding apolipoprotein e (apoe) has been proposed as a candidate gene for vascular complications in type i diabetes. this study aims to investigate the influence of three allelic variations in the apoe gene on the development of diabetic retinopathy and nephropathy.\n\nresults:\nthe frequencies of apoe alleles and genotypes did not differ between type i diabetic groups with and without nephropathy. similar results were found for patients with and without diabetic retinopathy.  conclusions apoe gene polymorphism does not determine genetic susceptibility for the development of diabetic retinopathy in type_i_diabetes patients  \n\nthe correlation between apoe gene polymorphism and diabetic nephropathy could be characterized as mild to moderate, but not significant."}
{"title": "alteration in amyloid \u03b242 , phosphorylated tau protein , interleukin_6 , and acetylcholine during diabetes-accelerated memory_dysfunction in diabetic rats : correlation of amyloid \u03b242 with changes in glucose metabolism", "abstract": "background diabetes accelerates memory_dysfunction in a continuous , slowly pathological process . studies suggest that the time course of certain biomarkers can characterize the pathological course of the disease to provide information for early intervention . thus , there is an urgent need for validated biomarkers to characterize the cognitive impairment induced by dm . we aimed to detect changes in cerebrospinal fluid biomarkers such as amyloid \u03b242 , phosphorylated tau protein , interleukin_6 , and acetylcholine in diabetic rats over time , and to analyse the relationship between diabetes and cognitive impairment . methods rats were injected once intraperitoneally with 1 % of streptozotocin to establish a diabetic model .", "gen_abstract": "\n\nthis study investigates the alterations in amyloid \u03b242, phosphorylated tau protein, interleukin-6, and acetylcholine in diabetic rats with memory dysfunction accelerated by diabetes. the study finds a correlation between changes in glucose metabolism and alterations in amyloid \u03b242 levels. the results suggest that diabetes may contribute to the development of alzheimer's disease by altering the metabolism of amyloid \u03b242. the study highlights the need for further research on the relationship between diabetes and alzheimer's disease.", "pol_abstract": "\n\nbackground:\nthe progression of memory dysfunction in diabetes is a gradual and continuous pathological process. previous studies have shown that specific biomarkers can indicate the course of the disease and enable early intervention. consequently, there is a pressing need to identify reliable biomarkers that can characterize cognitive impairment resulting from diabetes. this study aimed to monitor changes in cerebrospinal fluid biomarkers, including amyloid \u03b242, phosphorylated tau protein, interleukin-6, and acetylcholine, in diabetic rats over time and to examine the relationship between diabetes and cognitive impairment.\n\nmethods:\nto create a diabetic model, rats were administered a single intraperitoneal injection of 1% streptozotocin.", "mix_abstract": "background: the onset of cognitive impairment in diabetes follows a continuous and slowly progressive pathological process. various studies indicate that specific biomarkers can accurately represent the pathological progression of the disease, and therefore facilitate early intervention. thus, validated biomarkers are urgently required to effectively characterize dm-induced cognitive impairment.  we aimed to detect changes in cerebrospinal fluid biomarkers such as amyloid \u03b242 , phosphorylated tau protein , interleukin_6 , and acetylcholine in diabetic rats over time , and to analyse the relationship between diabetes and cognitive impairment  \n\nto create a diabetic model, rats were given a single intraperitoneal injection of 1% streptozotocin."}
{"title": "administration of fozivudine_tidoxil as a single-agent therapeutic during acute feline immunodeficiency virus infection does not alter chronic infection", "abstract": "initiating combination antiretroviral therapy ( art ) during acute hiv infection has been correlated with decreased viral set point and improved lymphocyte function . however , the long term effects of single-agent therapy administered only during the acute stage of infection ( interrupted treatment ) remain largely uncharacterized . in this study we provide longitudinal data using the feline immunodeficiency virus ( fiv ) model for hiv infection . infected cats were treated with a prophylactic single-agent therapy , fozivudine_tidoxil ( fzd ) , for six weeks , starting one day before infection . the initial acute infection study , reported elsewhere , demonstrated a decrease in plasma- and cell-associated viremia at two weeks post-infection ( pi ) in fzd-treated cats as compared to placebo-treated", "gen_abstract": "\n\nthe study investigated the effectiveness of fozivudine_tidoxil as a single-agent therapeutic during acute feline immunodeficiency virus (fiv) infection and its potential to alter chronic infection. fiv-positive cats were administered fozivudine_tidoxil during the acute phase of infection and monitored for changes in viral load and clinical outcomes during the acute and chronic phases. the results showed that fozivudine_tidoxil did not significantly alter the progression or outcome of chronic fiv infection. therefore, while fozivudine_tidoxil may be effective in the short-term management of acute fiv infection, it is not a suitable long-term solution for chronic fiv infection.", "pol_abstract": "\n\nstarting combination antiretroviral therapy (art) during acute hiv infection is associated with a reduced viral set point and improved lymphocyte function. however, the long-term effects of single-agent therapy administered only during the acute stage of infection (interrupted treatment) are not well understood. in this research, we present longitudinal data using the feline immunodeficiency virus (fiv) model for hiv infection. we treated infected cats with a prophylactic single-agent therapy, fozivudine_tidoxil (fzd), for six weeks, beginning one day before infection. in comparison to placebo-treated cats, the initial acute infection study, reported elsewhere, showed a reduction in plasma- and cell-associated viremia at two weeks post-infection (pi) in fzd-treated cats.", "mix_abstract": "revised text: \n\ninitiating combination antiretroviral therapy (art) during acute hiv infection has been associated with a decreased viral set point and improved lymphocyte function. however, the long-term effects of single-agent therapy administered only during the acute stage of infection (interrupted treatment) remain largely uncharacterized.  in this study we provide longitudinal data using the feline immunodeficiency virus ( fiv ) model for hiv infection  \n\nthe following is a polished version of the text:\n\n\"a prophylactic single-agent therapy, fozivudine_tidoxil (fzd), was administered to infected cats for six weeks, beginning one day prior to infection.\"  the initial acute infection study , reported elsewhere , demonstrated a decrease in plasma- and cell-associated viremia at two weeks post-infection ( pi ) in fzd-treated cats as compared to placebo-treated"}
{"title": "prospective study of daily low-dose nedaplatin and continuous 5-fluorouracil infusion combined with radiation for the treatment of esophageal squamous_cell_carcinoma", "abstract": "background protracted low-dose concurrent chemotherapy combined with radiation has been proposed for enhanced treatment results for esophageal cancer . we evaluated the efficacy and the toxicity of a novel regimen of daily low-dose nedaplatin ( cis-diammine-glycolatoplatinum ) and continuous infusion of 5-fluorouracil ( 5-fu ) with radiation in patients with esophageal squamous_cell_carcinoma . methods between january 2003 and june 2008 , 33 patients with clinical stage i to ivb esophageal squamous_cell_carcinoma were enrolled . nedaplatin ( 10 mg/body/day ) was administered daily and 5-fu ( 500 mg/body/day ) was administered continuously for 20 days . fractionated radiotherapy for a total dose of 50.4-66 gy was administered together with chemotherapy .", "gen_abstract": "\n\nthis prospective study aims to evaluate the efficacy and safety of daily low-dose nedaplatin and continuous 5-fluorouracil infusion combined with radiation therapy for the treatment of esophageal squamous cell carcinoma. the study will enroll patients with locally advanced esophageal cancer and follow them for the duration of their treatment and up to two years post-treatment to assess the treatment's impact on overall survival, disease-free survival, and quality of life. the study's findings will provide valuable insights into the use of this treatment regimen as a potential therapeutic option for patients with esophageal squamous cell carcinoma.", "pol_abstract": "\n\nthis study aimed to assess the effectiveness and safety of a new treatment approach for esophageal squamous cell carcinoma. specifically, we investigated the use of daily low-dose nedaplatin and continuous infusion of 5-fluorouracil in combination with radiation therapy. thirty-three patients with various stages of esophageal squamous cell carcinoma were treated between january 2003 and june 2008. the treatment involved administering nedaplatin (10 mg/body/day) and 5-fu (500 mg/body/day) continuously for 20 days, alongside fractionated radiotherapy with a total dose ranging from 50.4 to 66 gy. this study evaluates the efficacy and toxicity of the proposed regimen.", "mix_abstract": "we conducted a study to assess the effectiveness and safety of a new treatment approach for esophageal cancer, which involves administering daily low-dose nedaplatin and continuous infusion of 5-fluorouracil in conjunction with radiation therapy. the study included 33 patients with esophageal squamous cell carcinoma at clinical stage i to ivb, and was carried out from january 2003 to june 2008. the aim of the treatment was to improve outcomes for patients with this type of cancer.  nedaplatin ( 10 mg/body/day ) was administered daily and 5-fu ( 500 mg/body/day ) was administered continuously for 20 days  \n\nchemotherapy was given concurrently with fractionated radiotherapy, delivering a cumulative dose of 50.4-66 gy."}
{"title": "von_willebrand_factor increases endothelial cell adhesiveness for human mesenchymal stem cells by activating p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase", "abstract": "introduction delivered systemically or natively circulating mesenchymal stem cells accumulate in injured tissues . during homing mesenchymal stem cells adhere to endothelial cells and infiltrate underlying tissue . previously we have shown that adhesiveness of endothelial cells for mesenchymal stem cells correlates with the inhibition of mitochondrial function of endothelial cells and secretion of von_willebrand factor . we hypothesized that von_willebrand factor is an auto/paracrine regulator of endothelial cell adhesiveness and studied the effect of von_willebrand factor on adhesion of mesenchymal stem cells to endothelial cells . methods we used affymetrix dna microarrays , human protein phospho-mapk array , western blot , cell-based elisa and flow cytometry analysis to study the activation of endothelial cells by von_willebrand factor .", "gen_abstract": "\n\nthe adhesion of human mesenchymal stem cells (hmscs) to endothelial cells is a crucial step in stem cell homing and tissue regeneration. recent studies have shown that von willebrand factor (vwf) plays a significant role in this process. however, the underlying molecular mechanisms of vwf-mediated hmsc-endothelial cell adhesion are not fully understood. in this study, we demonstrate that vwf increases endothelial cell adhesiveness for hmscs by activating p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase (p38 mapk) signaling. our results show that vwf treatment of endothelial cells enhances the adhesion of hmscs, and this effect is blocked by the p38 mapk inhibitor. furthermore, vwf treatment activates p38 mapk in endothelial cells, leading to increased expression of adhesion molecules, such as icam-1 and vcam-1. these findings suggest that vwf-mediated activation of p38 mapk signaling is a critical mechanism underlying the adhesion of hmscs to endothelial cells, which has significant implications for the development of stem cell-based therapies for tissue repair and regeneration.", "pol_abstract": "\n\nthe accumulation of mesenchymal stem cells (mscs) in injured tissues can occur through systemic delivery or native circulation. when mscs home to injured sites, they adhere to endothelial cells and infiltrate underlying tissue. previous research has demonstrated that the adhesiveness of endothelial cells for mscs is linked to the inhibition of mitochondrial function and the secretion of von_willebrand factor (vwf). the researchers hypothesized that vwf acts as an auto/paracrine regulator of endothelial cell adhesiveness and investigated its impact on msc adhesion to endothelial cells. the study utilized affymetrix dna microarrays, human protein phospho-mapk array, western blot, cell-based elisa, and flow cytometry analysis to assess the activation of endothelial cells by vwf.", "mix_abstract": "introduction:\n\nwhen delivered systemically or naturally circulating, mesenchymal stem cells have the ability to accumulate in injured tissues. as they home in on these areas, mesenchymal stem cells adhere to endothelial cells and infiltrate the underlying tissue. previous research has demonstrated a correlation between the adhesiveness of endothelial cells for mesenchymal stem cells, the inhibition of mitochondrial function of endothelial cells, and the secretion of von willebrand factor.  we hypothesized that von_willebrand factor is an auto/paracrine regulator of endothelial cell adhesiveness and studied the effect of von_willebrand factor on adhesion of mesenchymal stem cells to endothelial cells  methods:\nwe employed various techniques to investigate the activation of endothelial cells by von willebrand factor. these included affymetrix dna microarrays, human protein phospho-mapk array, western blot, cell-based elisa, and flow cytometry analysis."}
{"title": "comparative analysis of endodontic smear_layer removal efficacy of 17 % ethylenediaminetetraacetic_acid , 7 % maleic_acid , and 2 % chlorhexidine using scanning electron microscope : an", "abstract": "aim : the aim of the present study was to evaluate the efficiency of different endodontic irrigants in the removal of smear_layer through scanning electron microscopic image analysis . materials and methods : the present in vitro study was carried out on 45 single-rooted extracted human mandibular premolar teeth with single canal and complete root formation . teeth were randomly assigned to three groups with 15 teeth in each group . group i samples were irrigated with 17 % ethylenediaminetetraacetic ( edta ) irrigation , group ii with 7 % maleic_acid irrigation , and group iii with 2 % chlorhexidine irrigation .", "gen_abstract": "\n\nthis study aimed to compare the efficacy of three different chemical agents - 17% ethylenediaminetetraacetic acid (edta), 7% maleic acid, and 2% chlorhexidine - in removing the smear layer during endodontic treatment. the study used scanning electron microscope (sem) to evaluate the cleaning efficiency of each agent on extracted human teeth. results showed that all three agents were effective in removing the smear layer, but there were differences in their cleaning efficacy. edta and chlorhexidine were found to be more effective than maleic acid, with edta showing the highest cleaning efficiency. this study highlights the importance of selecting the appropriate chemical agent for effective removal of the smear layer in endodontic treatment, and provides valuable information for clinicians in selecting the most suitable agent for their patients.", "pol_abstract": "the objective of this study was to assess the effectiveness of various endodontic irrigants in eliminating the smear layer, using scanning electron microscopic image analysis. for this in vitro study, 45 single-rooted extracted human mandibular premolar teeth with single canal and complete root formation were used. the teeth were randomly divided into three groups, each containing 15 teeth. group i was treated with 17% ethylenediaminetetraacetic (edta) irrigation, group ii with 7% maleic acid irrigation, and group iii with 2% chlorhexidine irrigation.", "mix_abstract": "aim: the objective of the present study was to assess the efficacy of various endodontic irrigants in removing the smear layer using scanning electron microscopic image analysis.\n\nmaterials and methods: this in vitro study was conducted on 45 single-rooted human mandibular premolar teeth with a single canal and complete root formation. the teeth were assigned randomly to three groups, each containing 15 teeth.  group i samples were irrigated with 17 % ethylenediaminetetraacetic ( edta ) irrigation , group ii with 7 % maleic_acid irrigation , and group iii with 2 % chlorhexidine irrigation"}
{"title": "dual tracer evaluation of dynamic changes in intratumoral hypoxic and proliferative states after radiotherapy of human head_and_neck_cancer xenografts using radiolabeled fmiso and flt", "abstract": "background radiotherapy is an important treatment strategy for head_and_neck_cancers . tumor hypoxia and repopulation adversely affect the radiotherapy outcome . accordingly , fractionated radiotherapy with dose escalation or altered fractionation schedule is used to prevent hypoxia and repopulation . 18 f-fluoromisonidazole ( fmiso ) and 18 f-fluorothymidine ( flt ) are noninvasive markers for assessing tumor hypoxia and proliferation , respectively . thus , we evaluated the dynamic changes in intratumoral hypoxic and proliferative states following radiotherapy using the dual tracers of 18 f-fmiso and 3 h-flt , and further verified the results by immunohistochemical staining of pimonidazole ( a hypoxia marker ) and ki-67 ( a proliferation marker ) in human head_and_neck_cancer xenografts ( fadu ) .", "gen_abstract": "\n\nthis study aimed to investigate the dynamic changes in the hypoxic and proliferative states of human head and neck cancer xenografts after radiotherapy using radiolabeled fmiso and flt tracers. dual tracer evaluation was performed to assess the intratumoral distribution of hypoxic and proliferative cells at different time points after radiotherapy. the results showed a significant decrease in hypoxic cells and a transient increase in proliferative cells within the tumors after radiotherapy. these findings suggest that the use of dual tracer evaluation can provide important insights into the complex interplay between hypoxia and proliferation in tumors during radiotherapy.", "pol_abstract": "\n\nbackground:\nradiotherapy is an important treatment strategy for head and neck cancers. however, tumor hypoxia and repopulation can negatively impact the radiotherapy outcome. to address this issue, fractionated radiotherapy with dose escalation or altered fractionation schedule is commonly used. to assess tumor hypoxia and proliferation, noninvasive markers such as 18 f-fluoromisonidazole (fmiso) and 18 f-fluorothymidine (flt) are utilized. in this study, we aimed to evaluate the changes in intratumoral hypoxic and proliferative states following radiotherapy using dual tracers of 18 f-fmiso and 3 h-flt. we further validated the findings by immunohistochemical staining of pimonidazole (a hypoxia marker) and ki-67 (a proliferation marker) in human head and neck cancer xenografts (fadu).", "mix_abstract": "background radiotherapy is an important treatment strategy for head_and_neck_cancers  \n\nthe negative impact of tumor hypoxia and repopulation on the success of radiotherapy is well-known. to counteract these effects, fractionated radiotherapy with dose escalation or altered fractionation schedule is commonly used. noninvasive markers like 18 f-fluoromisonidazole (fmiso) and 18 f-fluorothymidine (flt) are employed to evaluate tumor hypoxia and proliferation, respectively. in this study, we examined the changes in intratumoral hypoxic and proliferative states over time after radiotherapy using dual tracers of 18 f-fmiso and 3 h-flt. our findings were then validated through the use of immunohistochemical staining of pimonidazole (a hypoxia marker) and ki-67 (a proliferation marker) in human head and neck cancer xenografts (fadu)."}
{"title": "prospective study of ambient_particulate_matter exposure and risk of pulmonary_embolism in the nurses \u2019 health study cohort", "abstract": "background pulmonary_embolism ( pe ) is the most serious manifestation of venous thromboembolism and a leading cause of sudden death . several studies have suggested associations of venous thromboembolism with short-term particulate matter ( pm ) exposure ; evidence on long-term pm and traffic exposure is mixed . objectives we examined the association of long-term exposure to pm 2.5 , pm 2.5\u201310 , and pm 10 ( pm with diameter of \u2264 2.5 , 2.5\u201310 , and \u2264 10 \u03bcm ) and distance to roadways with overall incident pe and with pe subtypes in a cohort of u.s. women . methods the study included 115,745 women from the nurses \u2019 health study , followed from 1992 through 2008 .", "gen_abstract": "\n\nthis prospective study aims to investigate the potential link between exposure to ambient particulate matter and the risk of pulmonary embolism in the nurses' health study cohort. the study utilizes data collected from a large cohort of female nurses across the united states to assess the association between long-term exposure to particulate matter and the incidence of pulmonary embolism. the findings of this study will provide valuable insights into the potential adverse health effects of air pollution on the respiratory system and contribute to the development of strategies to reduce the risk of pulmonary embolism in populations exposed to high levels of particulate matter.", "pol_abstract": "\n\nbackground: pulmonary embolism (pe) is a severe form of venous thromboembolism and a leading cause of sudden death. while short-term exposure to particulate matter (pm) has been linked to venous thromboembolism, the evidence for the association between long-term exposure to pm and traffic exposure is inconclusive.\n\nobjectives: our study aims to investigate the relationship between long-term exposure to pm with diameters of \u2264 2.5, 2.5\u201310, and \u2264 10 \u03bcm, distance to roadways, and the incidence of overall pe and its subtypes in a group of american women.\n\nmethods: we conducted a cohort study of 115,745 women who participated in the nurses' health study between 1992 and 2008.", "mix_abstract": "background:\npulmonary embolism (pe) is a severe form of venous thromboembolism, which is a leading cause of sudden death. previous studies have reported a possible link between short-term exposure to particulate matter (pm) and venous thromboembolism. however, there is conflicting evidence regarding the association between long-term exposure to pm and traffic-related pollution.\n\nobjective:\nthe aim of our study was to investigate the potential association between long-term exposure to pm 2.5, pm 2.5-10, and no2 and the risk of venous thromboembolism, specifically pulmonary embolism. 5\u201310 , and pm 10 ( pm with diameter of \u2264 2 polish the text: \"5, 2.5-10, and \u226410 \u03bcm) and distance to roadways with overall incident pe and with pe subtypes in a cohort of u.\"\n\nexplanation: \n1. added spaces after commas and before closing parentheses for consistency.\n2. fixed capitalization of \"pe\" and \"pe subtypes\".\n3. removed the incomplete word \"u\". s women: methods\n\nthe study enrolled 115,745 female participants from the nurses' health study, who were followed from 1992 through 2008."}
{"title": "microrna-208b alleviates post-infarction myocardial_fibrosis in a rat model by inhibiting gata4", "abstract": "background myocardial infarction affects the health of many people . post-infarction myocardial_fibrosis has attracted much attention , but details of the mechanism remain elusive . in this study , the role of microrna-208b ( mir-208b ) in modulating post-infarction myocardial_fibrosis and the related mechanism were investigated . material/methods a rat model of myocardial infarction induced by ligating the left anterior descending artery was used to analyze the expression and roles of mir-208b by overexpression with the lentivirus vector of pre-mir-208b . myocardial function was assessed and the expression of fibrosis-related factors type i collagen ( col1 ) and acta2 ( alias \u03b1sma ) was detected .", "gen_abstract": "\n\nmicrorna-208b is known to play a crucial role in regulating cardiac development and function. in this study, we investigated the potential therapeutic effect of microrna-208b in alleviating post-infarction myocardial fibrosis in a rat model. we found that microrna-208b expression was decreased in the fibrotic myocardium of rats following myocardial infarction. overexpression of microrna-208b significantly reduced fibrosis and improved cardiac function. mechanistically, we identified gata4 as a direct target of microrna-208b in cardiac fibroblasts, and inhibition of gata4 by microrna-208b suppressed fibroblast proliferation and collagen synthesis. our findings suggest that microrna-208b may represent a potential therapeutic target for treating post-infarction myocardial fibrosis.", "pol_abstract": "context: the following abstract describes a study that investigates the role of microrna-208b in post-infarction myocardial fibrosis in a rat model.\n\nabstract:\nmyocardial infarction is a widespread health issue that affects many people. while post-infarction myocardial fibrosis has gained attention, the underlying mechanism remains unclear. this study aimed to investigate the role of microrna-208b (mir-208b) in modulating post-infarction myocardial fibrosis and its related mechanism. to analyze the expression and roles of mir-208b, a rat model of myocardial infarction was induced by ligating the left anterior descending artery. overexpression of mir-208b was achieved using a lentivirus vector of pre-mir-208b. myocardial function was assessed, and the expression of fibrosis-related factors, type i collagen (col1), and acta2 (alias \u03b1sma) were detected.", "mix_abstract": "background myocardial infarction affects the health of many people  the mechanism of post-infarction myocardial fibrosis has been an area of intense investigation. this study examines the role of microrna-208b (mir-208b) in modulating post-infarction myocardial fibrosis and its related mechanism. the study used a rat model of myocardial infarction induced by ligating the left anterior descending artery to investigate the expression and function of mir-208b through overexpression with the lentivirus vector of pre-mir-208b. the study assessed myocardial function and detected the expression of fibrosis-related factors, including type i collagen (col1) and acta2 (also known as \u03b1sma)."}
{"title": "enterobiasis and strongyloidiasis and associated co-infections and morbidity markers in infants , preschool- and school-aged children from rural coastal tanzania : a cross-sectional study", "abstract": "background there is a paucity of data pertaining to the epidemiology and public health impact of enterobius vermicularis and strongyloides stercoralis infections . we aimed to determine the extent of enterobiasis , strongyloidiasis , and other helminth infections and their association with asymptomatic plasmodium parasitaemia , anaemia , nutritional status , and blood cell counts in infants , preschool-aged ( psac ) , and school-aged children ( sac ) from rural coastal tanzania . methods a total of 1,033 children were included in a cross-sectional study implemented in the bagamoyo district in 2011/2012 . faecal samples were examined for intestinal helminth infections using a broad set of quality controlled methods .", "gen_abstract": "\n\nthis cross-sectional study aimed to investigate the prevalence of enterobiasis and strongyloidiasis, as well as their co-infections and associated morbidity markers, in infants, preschool- and school-aged children from rural coastal tanzania. a total of 500 stool samples were collected and analyzed for the presence of parasitic infections using standard techniques. the results showed a high prevalence of enterobiasis and strongyloidiasis in the study population, with co-infections being common among preschool-aged children. additionally, several morbidity markers such as anemia and malnutrition were found to be associated with parasitic infections, indicating a need for integrated control strategies to improve the health and wellbeing of children in this area. these findings underscore the importance of regular parasitological surveillance and targeted interventions in areas where enterobiasis and strongyloidiasis are prevalent.", "pol_abstract": "background: the epidemiology and public health impact of enterobius vermicularis and strongyloides stercoralis infections are poorly understood due to the limited available data. our objective was to investigate the prevalence of enterobiasis, strongyloidiasis, and other helminth infections and their correlation with asymptomatic plasmodium parasitaemia, anaemia, nutritional status, and blood cell counts in infants, preschool-aged (psac), and school-aged children (sac) from rural coastal tanzania. \n\nmethods: we conducted a cross-sectional study in the bagamoyo district in 2011/2012, which involved 1,033 children. we utilized a comprehensive range of quality-controlled methods to examine faecal samples for intestinal helminth infections.", "mix_abstract": "background there is a paucity of data pertaining to the epidemiology and public health impact of enterobius vermicularis and strongyloides stercoralis infections  \n\nour objective was to determine the prevalence of enterobiasis, strongyloidiasis, and other helminth infections in infants, preschool-aged (psac), and school-aged children (sac) from rural coastal tanzania, as well as their association with asymptomatic plasmodium parasitaemia, anaemia, nutritional status, and blood cell counts. \n\nto achieve this, we conducted a cross-sectional study in the bagamoyo district in 2011/2012, which included 1,033 children. we utilized a broad range of quality-controlled methods to examine faecal samples for intestinal helminth infections."}
{"title": "evaluating the effectiveness of topical application of natural honey and benzydamine_hydrochloride in the management of radiation_mucositis", "abstract": "background : radiation_mucositis is an early effect of head and neck radiotherapy . mucositis can cause ulcers , and patients may experience pain and dysphagia which need proper management . this study was conducted in 60 patients with oral malignancy . aim : to evaluate the effect of natural honey and 0.15 % benzydamine_hydrochloride on onset and severity of radiation_mucositis and to compare it with control . materials and methods : this study was conducted in the department of oral medicine and radiology , tamilnadu government dental college and hospital , chennai , from april to december 2010 . the sample size comprised of 60 patients , of both genders , diagnosed with oral malignancy clinically and histopathologically and planned for", "gen_abstract": "\n\nradiation mucositis is a common side effect of radiotherapy in cancer patients, causing inflammation and pain in the oral cavity. the aim of this study is to evaluate the effectiveness of natural honey and benzydamine hydrochloride in managing radiation mucositis when applied topically. the study will be conducted on a sample of cancer patients undergoing radiotherapy, and the participants will be divided into three groups: a natural honey group, a benzydamine hydrochloride group, and a control group. the severity of radiation mucositis will be assessed using a standard scale, and pain scores will be recorded. the data will be analyzed using statistical methods to determine the effectiveness of the treatments. the results of this study will contribute to the development of effective treatments for radiation mucositis and may offer an alternative to synthetic drugs.", "pol_abstract": "this study aims to investigate the impact of natural honey and 0.15% benzydamine hydrochloride on the early onset and severity of radiation-induced mucositis in patients with oral malignancy. the background of the study highlights how mucositis can cause ulcers, pain, and difficulty in swallowing, which require proper management. the study was conducted on a sample of 60 patients of both genders, diagnosed with oral malignancy, and planned for head and neck radiotherapy. the research was carried out at the department of oral medicine and radiology, tamilnadu government dental college and hospital, chennai, from april to december 2010. the study aimed to compare the effectiveness of the treatments with a control group.", "mix_abstract": "background: radiation-induced mucositis is an early side effect of head and neck radiotherapy. mucositis can lead to the development of ulcers, and patients may experience pain and dysphagia, which requires proper management.  this study was conducted in 60 patients with oral malignancy  the objective of this study was to assess the impact of natural honey and 0.15% benzydamine hydrochloride in reducing the onset and severity of radiation-induced mucositis, and compare it with a control group. the study was carried out at the department of oral medicine and radiology, tamilnadu government dental college and hospital in chennai, from april to december 2010.  the sample size comprised of 60 patients , of both genders , diagnosed with oral malignancy clinically and histopathologically and planned for"}
{"title": "the absence of reactive_oxygen_species production protects mice against bleomycin-induced pulmonary_fibrosis", "abstract": "background reactive_oxygen_species and tissue remodeling regulators , such as metalloproteinases ( mmps ) and their inhibitors ( timps ) , are thought to be involved in the development of pulmonary_fibrosis . we investigated these factors in the fibrotic response to bleomycin of p47 phox -/- ( ko ) mice , deficient for ros production through the nadph-oxidase pathway . methods mice are administered by intranasal instillation of 0.1 mg bleomycin . either 24 h or 14 days after , mice were anesthetized and underwent either bronchoalveolar lavage ( bal ) or lung removal . results bal cells from bleomycin treated wt mice showed enhanced ros production after pma stimulation , whereas no change was observed with bal cells from p47 phox -/-", "gen_abstract": "\n\nthis study investigates the role of reactive oxygen species (ros) production in bleomycin-induced pulmonary fibrosis in mice. the authors hypothesized that the absence of ros production would protect mice against pulmonary fibrosis. to test this hypothesis, they induced pulmonary fibrosis in two groups of mice, one with intact ros production and the other with impaired ros production. the results showed that the mice with impaired ros production had a reduced severity of pulmonary fibrosis, indicating that ros production plays a critical role in the development of pulmonary fibrosis. these findings have important implications for the development of new treatments for pulmonary fibrosis.", "pol_abstract": "\n\nbackground: reactive oxygen species (ros) and tissue remodeling regulators, including metalloproteinases (mmps) and their inhibitors (timps), are believed to play a role in the development of pulmonary fibrosis. we conducted a study to investigate these factors in the fibrotic response to bleomycin in p47 phox -/- (ko) mice, which are deficient in ros production through the nadph-oxidase pathway.\n\nmethods: we administered 0.1 mg of bleomycin via intranasal instillation to the mice. either 24 hours or 14 days after the administration, the mice underwent either bronchoalveolar lavage (bal) or lung removal while under anesthesia.\n\nresults: the bal cells from bleomycin-treated wild-type (wt) mice showed increased ros production after pma stimulation, while no changes were observed in bal cells from p47 phox -/- mice.", "mix_abstract": "background reactive_oxygen_species and tissue remodeling regulators , such as metalloproteinases ( mmps ) and their inhibitors ( timps ) , are thought to be involved in the development of pulmonary_fibrosis  in this study, we examined the impact of p47 phox deficiency on the fibrotic response to bleomycin in mice lacking ros production via the nadph-oxidase pathway. the mice were given 0.1 mg of bleomycin through intranasal instillation, and after either 24 hours or 14 days, they underwent either bronchoalveolar lavage (bal) or lung removal while under anesthesia.  results bal cells from bleomycin treated wt mice showed enhanced ros production after pma stimulation , whereas no change was observed with bal cells from p47 phox -/-"}
{"title": "development of accelerated coronary atherosclerosis model using low density lipoprotein receptor knock-out swine with balloon_injury", "abstract": "background several animal models have facilitated the evaluation and pathological understanding of atherosclerosis , but a definitive animal model of coronary_atherosclerosis is not available . we therefore developed low density lipoprotein receptor knockout ( ldlr-ko ) pigs with hypercholesterolemia , a model which rapidly developed coronary_atherosclerosis following balloon_injury . methods and results we deleted ldlr exon regions from cultured porcine fetal fibroblasts and cloned ldlr knockout ( ldlr-ko ) embryos microinjecting fetal fibroblast nuclei into enucleated oocytes . twelve ldlr-ko pigs were fed a 2.0 % cholesterol and 20 % fat diet . baseline serum ldl cholesterol level was 510.0\u00b186.1 mg/dl .", "gen_abstract": "\n\ncoronary artery disease (cad) is a leading cause of morbidity and mortality worldwide. animal models of accelerated atherosclerosis have been used to study the pathogenesis of cad and to develop novel therapeutic approaches. in this study, we describe the development of an accelerated coronary atherosclerosis model using low-density lipoprotein receptor (ldlr) knock-out swine with balloon injury. we demonstrated that the ldlr knock-out swine with balloon injury showed accelerated atherosclerosis compared to the control group, which was confirmed by histological analysis and imaging. this model could be a valuable tool for investigating the pathogenesis of cad and for testing new therapeutic approaches.", "pol_abstract": "background:\nwhile several animal models have helped researchers understand and evaluate atherosclerosis, there is currently no definitive animal model for coronary atherosclerosis. to address this issue, we developed a model using ldlr-ko pigs with hypercholesterolemia, which showed rapid development of coronary atherosclerosis after balloon injury.\n\nmethods and results:\nwe created the ldlr-ko pigs by deleting ldlr exon regions from cultured porcine fetal fibroblasts and cloning ldlr knockout embryos through the microinjection of fetal fibroblast nuclei into enucleated oocytes. twelve ldlr-ko pigs were then fed a 2.0% cholesterol and 20% fat diet, resulting in a baseline serum ldl cholesterol level of 510.0\u00b186.1 mg/dl.", "mix_abstract": "the development and pathological understanding of atherosclerosis have been aided by various animal models. however, there is no definitive animal model for coronary atherosclerosis. to address this, we created a model using ldlr-ko pigs with hypercholesterolemia. this model rapidly developed coronary atherosclerosis after balloon injury.  methods and results we deleted ldlr exon regions from cultured porcine fetal fibroblasts and cloned ldlr knockout ( ldlr-ko ) embryos microinjecting fetal fibroblast nuclei into enucleated oocytes  twelve ldlr-ko pigs were fed a diet containing 2.0% cholesterol and 20% fat. the baseline serum ldl cholesterol level was 510.0\u00b186.1 mg/dl."}
{"title": "hyaluronan modulates accumulation of hypoxia-inducible factor-1 alpha , inducible nitric_oxide synthase , and matrix_metalloproteinase-3 in the synovium of rat adjuvant-induced arthritis model", "abstract": "introduction hypoxia is a feature of the inflamed synovium in rheumatoid arthritis ( ra ) . intra-articular injection of hyaluronan ( ha ) may be considered a potential way to treat ra . however , the exact molecular mechanism of ha on decreased cellular responses to hypoxic environment is unclear . the present study has been designed to use the adjuvant-induced arthritis model to examine the effects of ha on the changes of immunohistochemical expressions of hypoxia-inducible factor-1alpha ( hif-1alpha ) , inducible nitric_oxide synthase ( inos ) , and matrix_metalloproteinase-3 ( mmp3 ) in the synovial tissues at the early phase of arthritic inflammation .", "gen_abstract": "\n\nthe abstract summarizes a study that investigated the effects of hyaluronan on the accumulation of hypoxia-inducible factor-1 alpha (hif-1\u03b1), inducible nitric oxide synthase (inos), and matrix metalloproteinase-3 (mmp-3) in the synovium of a rat model of adjuvant-induced arthritis. the study found that hyaluronan treatment reduced the accumulation of hif-1\u03b1, inos, and mmp-3 in the synovium, indicating its potential as a therapeutic strategy for treating arthritis. the results suggest that hyaluronan may exert its effects through modulation of the hypoxic microenvironment in the synovium, reducing inflammatory responses and tissue damage. overall, the study sheds light on the mechanisms underlying the therapeutic potential of hyaluronan in arthritis and highlights the importance of targeting hypoxic signaling pathways in arthritis treatment.", "pol_abstract": "\n\nin rheumatoid arthritis (ra), hypoxia is a characteristic of the inflamed synovium. one potential treatment for ra is the intra-articular injection of hyaluronan (ha). however, the specific molecular mechanism by which ha reduces cellular responses to a hypoxic environment remains unclear. this study uses an adjuvant-induced arthritis model to investigate the effects of ha on the expression of hypoxia-inducible factor-1alpha (hif-1alpha), inducible nitric oxide synthase (inos), and matrix metalloproteinase-3 (mmp3) in synovial tissues during the early phase of arthritic inflammation.", "mix_abstract": "the inflamed synovium in rheumatoid arthritis (ra) is characterized by hypoxia. one potential treatment for ra is intra-articular injection of hyaluronan (ha). however, the precise molecular mechanism by which ha reduces cellular responses to a hypoxic environment remains uncertain.  the present study has been designed to use the adjuvant-induced arthritis model to examine the effects of ha on the changes of immunohistochemical expressions of hypoxia-inducible factor-1alpha ( hif-1alpha ) , inducible nitric_oxide synthase ( inos ) , and matrix_metalloproteinase-3 ( mmp3 ) in the synovial tissues at the early phase of arthritic inflammation"}
{"title": "ovarian_cancer survival population differences : a `` high resolution study '' comparing philippine residents , and filipino-americans and caucasians living in the us", "abstract": "background in contrast to most other forms of cancer , data from some developing and developed countries show surprisingly similar survival rates for ovarian_cancer . we aimed to compare ovarian_cancer survival in philippine residents , filipino-americans and caucasians living in the us , using a high resolution approach , taking potential differences in prognostic factors into account . methods using databases from the seer 13 and from the manila and rizal cancer registries , age-adjusted five-year absolute and relative survival estimates were computed using the period analysis method and compared between filipino-american ovarian_cancer patients with cancer patients from the philippines and caucasians in the us .", "gen_abstract": "\n\nthis study aimed to compare the survival rates of ovarian cancer patients from different population groups using a high-resolution approach. the study focused on the differences in survival rates among philippine residents, filipino-americans, and caucasians living in the united states. the study utilized data from various sources, including medical records, cancer registries, and demographic databases. results showed significant differences in ovarian cancer survival rates between the three groups, with filipino-americans exhibiting the highest survival rates and philippine residents having the lowest. the findings highlight the need for tailored cancer prevention and treatment strategies for different population groups to improve ovarian cancer outcomes.", "pol_abstract": "\n\nbackground:\nunlike most other types of cancer, ovarian cancer has shown similar survival rates in both developed and developing countries. the objective of this study was to compare the survival rates of ovarian cancer patients in the philippines, filipino-americans, and caucasians living in the us, while considering potential differences in prognostic factors using a high-resolution approach.\n\nmethods:\nto achieve this, we used databases from seer 13, as well as the manila and rizal cancer registries. we computed age-adjusted five-year absolute and relative survival estimates using the period analysis method. the survival estimates were then compared between filipino-american ovarian cancer patients, cancer patients in the philippines, and caucasians in the us.", "mix_abstract": "background:\nunlike many other types of cancer, ovarian cancer survival rates are surprisingly similar between developing and developed countries. the goal of this study was to use a high-resolution approach to compare ovarian cancer survival rates among residents of the philippines, filipino-americans, and caucasians living in the us, while taking into account potential differences in prognostic factors.\n\nmethods:\nthe study utilized databases from the seer 13, as well as from the manila and rizal cancer registries. age-adjusted five-year absolute and relative survival estimates were computed using the period analysis method and compared between filipino-american ovarian cancer patients and cancer patients from the philippines and caucasians in the us."}
{"title": "tasquinimod ( abr-215050 ) , a quinoline-3-carboxamide anti-angiogenic agent , modulates the expression of thrombospondin-1 in human prostate_tumors", "abstract": "background the orally active quinoline-3-carboxamide tasquinimod [ abr-215050 ; cas number 254964-60-8 ) , which currently is in a phase ii-clinical trial in patients against metastatic prostate cancer , exhibits anti-tumor activity via inhibition of tumor angiogenesis in human and rodent tumors . to further explore the mode of action of tasquinimod , in vitro and in vivo experiments with gene microarray analysis were performed using lncap prostate_tumor cells . the array data were validated by real-time semiquantitative reversed transcriptase polymerase chain reaction ( sqrt-pcr ) and protein expression techniques . results one of the most significant differentially expressed genes both in vitro and in vivo after exposure to tasquinimod , was thrombospondin-1 ( tsp1 ) .", "gen_abstract": "\n\nthis study investigates the effects of tasquinimod (abr-215050), a quinoline-3-carboxamide anti-angiogenic agent, on the expression of thrombospondin-1 (tsp-1) in human prostate tumors. tsp-1 is a potent inhibitor of angiogenesis and tumor growth. the researchers conducted experiments on human prostate tumor tissues and observed that tasquinimod treatment led to increased expression of tsp-1 in tumor tissues. these findings suggest that tasquinimod may have therapeutic potential for the treatment of prostate cancer by modulating the expression of tsp-1 and inhibiting tumor angiogenesis.", "pol_abstract": "\n\nbackground:\ntasquinimod [abr-215050; cas number 254964-60-8] is a quinoline-3-carboxamide with oral activity, currently undergoing phase ii clinical trials for metastatic prostate cancer treatment. it has been observed to exhibit anti-tumor activity by inhibiting tumor angiogenesis in human and rodent tumors. in order to investigate the mode of action of tasquinimod, both in vitro and in vivo experiments were performed with gene microarray analysis using lncap prostate tumor cells. the validity of array data was confirmed using real-time semi-quantitative reversed transcriptase polymerase chain reaction (sqrt-pcr) and protein expression techniques. \n\nresults:\nthrombospondin-1 (tsp1) was found to be one of the most significantly differentially expressed genes in vitro and in vivo after exposure to tasquinimod.", "mix_abstract": "the quinoline-3-carboxamide tasquinimod [abr-215050; cas number 254964-60-8] is an orally active drug currently undergoing phase ii clinical trials in patients with metastatic prostate cancer. it has demonstrated anti-tumor activity by inhibiting tumor angiogenesis in both human and rodent tumors. in order to further investigate tasquinimod's mode of action, in vitro and in vivo experiments were conducted using lncap prostate tumor cells. these experiments included gene microarray analysis, which was validated using real-time semiquantitative reversed transcriptase polymerase chain reaction (sqrt-pcr) and protein expression techniques.  results one of the most significant differentially expressed genes both in vitro and in vivo after exposure to tasquinimod , was thrombospondin-1 ( tsp1 )"}
{"title": "sudden cardiac_death after myocardial_infarction in type 2 diabetic patients with no residual myocardial ischemia", "abstract": "objective diabetes mellitus ( dm ) is a well-established risk factor for coronary artery disease . nonetheless , it remains unclear whether dm contributes to sudden cardiac_death in patients who survive myocardial_infarction ( mi ) . the objective of this study was to compare the incidence of sudden cardiac_death post-mi in diabetic and nondiabetic patients with no residual myocardial ischemia . research design and methods a total of 610 consecutive post-mi patients referred to a cardiac rehabilitation program with negative exercise stress test were studied . results of these , 236 patients had dm at baseline . over a mean follow-up of 5 years , 67 patients with dm ( 28.4 % ) and 76 of 374 patients without dm ( 20.2 % ) had died with a hazard ratio ( hr ) of 1.74 ( 95 % ci : 1.28\u20132.56 ; p < 0.001", "gen_abstract": "\n\nthis study aims to investigate the incidence and potential risk factors of sudden cardiac death (scd) after myocardial infarction (mi) in type 2 diabetic patients who have no residual myocardial ischemia. a retrospective analysis of medical records of diabetic patients who suffered mi was conducted to identify patients who developed scd. patients who had residual myocardial ischemia or were taking medications that affect cardiovascular function were excluded. the results of this study will contribute to the understanding of the pathophysiology of scd and the identification of high-risk patients for preventive measures.", "pol_abstract": "\n\nthe aim of this study was to investigate whether diabetes mellitus (dm) increases the risk of sudden cardiac death in patients who survive myocardial infarction (mi), despite having no residual myocardial ischemia. dm is a known risk factor for coronary artery disease, but its impact on sudden cardiac death post-mi is unclear. the study examined 610 consecutive post-mi patients who had a negative exercise stress test and were referred to a cardiac rehabilitation program. of these patients, 236 had dm at baseline. after a mean follow-up of 5 years, 67 patients with dm (28.4%) and 76 of 374 patients without dm (20.2%) died. the hazard ratio (hr) was 1.74 (95% ci: 1.28\u20132.56; p < 0.001).", "mix_abstract": "the aim of this study is to demonstrate that diabetes mellitus (dm) is a widely recognized risk factor for coronary artery disease.  nonetheless , it remains unclear whether dm contributes to sudden cardiac_death in patients who survive myocardial_infarction ( mi )  \n\nthis study aimed to examine the difference in sudden cardiac death rates after myocardial infarction (mi) in patients with and without diabetes, who did not have any remaining myocardial ischemia. the research involved 610 post-mi patients who were consecutively referred to a cardiac rehabilitation program and had a negative exercise stress test. among these patients, 236 had diabetes at the beginning of the study. the results of the study are presented herein.  over a mean follow-up of 5 years , 67 patients with dm ( 28  4 % ) and 76 of 374 patients without dm ( 20 here's the polished text:\n\n\"two percent (2%) of the subjects had died with a hazard ratio (hr) of 1.74 (95% ci: 1.28\u20132.56; p < 0).\" 001"}
{"title": "viral-bacterial_co-infection in australian indigenous children with acute_otitis_media", "abstract": "background acute_otitis_media with perforation ( aomwip ) affects 40 % of remote indigenous children during the first 18 months of life . streptococcus pneumoniae , haemophilus influenzae and moraxella catarrhalis are the primary bacterial pathogens of otitis_media and their loads predict clinical ear state . our hypothesis is that antecedent respiratory viral infection increases bacterial density and progression to perforation . methods a total of 366 nasopharyngeal swabs from 114 indigenous children were retrospectively examined . a panel of 17 respiratory viruses was screened by pcr , and densities of s. pneumoniae , h. influenzae and m. catarrhalis were estimated by quantitative real time pcr .", "gen_abstract": "\n\nthis study explores the occurrence and clinical significance of viral-bacterial co-infections in australian indigenous children with acute otitis media (aom). using molecular diagnostic methods, the prevalence of viral and bacterial pathogens in middle ear fluid samples was assessed. the study found that viral-bacterial co-infections were common in indigenous children with aom, and that certain viral pathogens were more likely to co-infect with certain bacterial species. co-infections were associated with longer duration of symptoms and higher levels of inflammatory markers, highlighting the importance of identifying co", "pol_abstract": "\n\nbackground:\naround 40% of remote indigenous children are affected by acute otitis media with perforation (aomwip) within their first 18 months of life. the primary bacterial pathogens of otitis media are streptococcus pneumoniae, haemophilus influenzae, and moraxella catarrhalis, and their loads can predict clinical ear state. our hypothesis is that antecedent respiratory viral infection increases bacterial density and progression to perforation.\n\nmethods:\nin this study, we retrospectively examined 366 nasopharyngeal swabs from 114 indigenous children. we screened a panel of 17 respiratory viruses using pcr and estimated the densities of s. pneumoniae, h. influenzae, and m. catarrhalis using quantitative real-time pcr.", "mix_abstract": "background acute_otitis_media with perforation ( aomwip ) affects 40 % of remote indigenous children during the first 18 months of life    streptococcus pneumoniae , haemophilus influenzae and moraxella catarrhalis are the primary bacterial pathogens of otitis_media and their loads predict clinical ear state  \n\npolished text: \n\nwe hypothesize that antecedent respiratory viral infections can increase bacterial density and result in the progression to perforation. to investigate this hypothesis, we retrospectively examined 366 nasopharyngeal swabs from 114 indigenous children. we screened a panel of 17 respiratory viruses using pcr, and estimated the densities of s. pneumoniae, h. influenzae, and m. catarrhalis using quantitative real-time pcr."}
{"title": "oseltamivir ( tamiflu ) -induced bilateral acute_angle_closure_glaucoma and transient myopia", "abstract": "a 27-year-old woman developed bilateral acute_angle_closure_glaucoma ( aacg ) and transient myopia after taking oseltamivir for four days . on the fourth day , she received systemic and topical intraocular pressure ( iop ) -lowering agents , and iop decreased in both eyes . however , her visual acuity was unchanged . a myopic shift of -5.25 d od and -5.0 d os was estimated to have occurred in the acute phase . a-scan ultrasonography and pentacam showed markedly shallow anterior chambers and increased lens thickness . ultrasound biomicroscopy revealed an annular ciliochoroidal effusion with forward displacement of the lens-iris diaphragm .", "gen_abstract": "\n\noseltamivir (tamiflu) is an antiviral medication widely used for the treatment of influenza. while its safety profile is generally considered favorable, rare adverse effects have been reported. here we present a case of bilateral acute angle-closure glaucoma and transient myopia occurring in a patient shortly after the initiation of oseltamivir therapy for influenza. the patient presented with sudden onset of pain, redness, and decreased vision in both eyes. examination revealed elevated intraocular pressure, shallow anterior chambers, and myopic shift in refraction. oseltamivir was discontinued, and treatment was initiated to lower intraocular pressure and manage the angle-closure glaucoma. the patient's symptoms improved over the next several days, with complete resolution of angle-closure glaucoma and restoration of normal vision. clinicians should be aware of the potential for oseltamivir-induced ocular adverse effects, and promptly evaluate patients presenting with ocular symptoms while on this medication.", "pol_abstract": "after taking oseltamivir for four days, a 27-year-old woman experienced bilateral acute angle-closure glaucoma (aacg) and transient myopia. on the fourth day, she was administered systemic and topical intraocular pressure (iop)-lowering agents, resulting in decreased iop in both eyes. however, her visual acuity remained unchanged. during the acute phase, a myopic shift of -5.25 d od and -5.0 d os was observed. a-scan ultrasonography and pentacam revealed markedly shallow anterior chambers and increased lens thickness. ultrasound biomicroscopy showed an annular ciliochoroidal effusion, resulting in forward displacement of the lens-iris diaphragm.", "mix_abstract": "a 27-year-old woman developed bilateral acute angle-closure glaucoma (aacg) and transient myopia after taking oseltamivir for four days. on the fourth day, she received systemic and topical intraocular pressure (iop)-lowering agents, and iop decreased in both eyes. however, her visual acuity remained unchanged. she experienced a myopic shift of -5. 25 d od and -5 \n\nduring the acute phase, 0 d os was observed, with a-scan ultrasonography"}
{"title": "pituitary_macroadenoma presenting with pituitary_apoplexy , acromegaly and secondary_diabetes_mellitus - a case report", "abstract": "pituitary adenomas are associated with significant morbidity . the usual symptoms on presentation are of endocrine dysfunction and mass effects . a 31-year-old african female presented with headache , irregular menses , blurring of vision in the right eye and complete loss of vision in the left eye for 1 year . she had coarse facial features , enlarged hands and feet . her right eye had temporal hemianopia with decreased visual acuity and her left eye had no perception of light . investigations revealed an elevated fasting blood sugar and an elevated prolactin and growth hormone level . a ct scan and mri done showed a hemorrhagic pituitary_macroadenoma .", "gen_abstract": "\n\nthis case report describes a patient with a pituitary macroadenoma who presented with pituitary apoplexy, acromegaly, and secondary diabetes mellitus. pituitary apoplexy is a rare and life-threatening condition that occurs when there is bleeding into or around the pituitary gland. acromegaly is a hormonal disorder characterized by excess growth hormone secretion, leading to enlarged body parts and a range of associated health problems. secondary diabetes mellitus is a type of diabetes that is caused by an underlying medical condition, such as a hormonal disorder. this case report highlights the importance of recognizing and treating the various symptoms of pituitary macroadenoma, as early diagnosis and management can lead to improved patient outcomes.", "pol_abstract": "\n\nsignificant morbidity is associated with pituitary adenomas, with usual symptoms including endocrine dysfunction and mass effects. a 31-year-old african female presented with a one-year history of headache, irregular menses, blurring of vision in the right eye, and complete loss of vision in the left eye. coarse facial features and enlarged hands and feet were noted. the right eye exhibited temporal hemianopia with decreased visual acuity, while the left eye had no light perception. investigations revealed elevated fasting blood sugar, prolactin, and growth hormone levels. imaging with ct and mri showed a hemorrhagic pituitary macroadenoma.", "mix_abstract": "significant morbidity is linked with pituitary adenomas.  the usual symptoms on presentation are of endocrine dysfunction and mass effects  a 31-year-old african female presented with a headache, irregular menses, blurring of vision in the right eye, and complete loss of vision in the left eye for one year. she also had coarse facial features and enlarged hands and feet. her right eye had temporal hemianopia with decreased visual acuity, and her left eye had no perception of light. investigations revealed an elevated fasting blood sugar, as well as elevated levels of prolactin and growth hormone. a ct scan and mri revealed a hemorrhagic pituitary macroadenoma."}
{"title": "proinflammatory cytokines and bile_acids upregulate \u03b4np73 protein , an inhibitor of p53 and p73 tumor suppressors", "abstract": "gastroesophageal reflux disease ( gerd ) is the main etiological factor behind the recent rapid increase in the incidence of esophageal adenocarcinoma . during reflux , esophageal cells are exposed to bile at low ph resulting in cellular damage and inflammation , which are known to facilitate cancer development . in this study , we investigated the regulation of p73 isoform , \u03b4np73\u03b1 , in the reflux condition . previous studies have reported that \u03b4np73 exhibits anti-apoptotic and oncogenic properties through inhibition of p53 and p73 proteins . we found that direct exposure of esophageal cells to bile_acids in an acidic environment alters the phosphorylation of \u03b4np73 , its subcellular localization and increases \u03b4np73 protein levels .", "gen_abstract": "\n\nthe transcription factor \u03b4np73 has been identified as an inhibitor of tumor suppressor proteins p53 and p73. recent studies have shown that proinflammatory cytokines and bile acids upregulate the expression of \u03b4np73 protein, potentially contributing to the development and progression of cancer. in this abstract, we review the current understanding of the molecular mechanisms by which proinflammatory cytokines and bile acids regulate \u03b4np73 expression and highlight the implications of this regulation in cancer biology. we discuss the potential clinical significance of these findings and propose future directions for research in this field.", "pol_abstract": "\n\nthe incidence of esophageal adenocarcinoma has rapidly increased due to gastroesophageal reflux disease (gerd) being the main cause. during reflux, low ph bile exposure damages esophageal cells, leading to inflammation and facilitating cancer development. the current study investigated the impact of reflux on the regulation of p73 isoform, \u03b4np73\u03b1. previous research has shown that \u03b4np73 has anti-apoptotic and oncogenic effects by inhibiting p53 and p73 proteins. our findings demonstrate that direct exposure of esophageal cells to bile acids in an acidic environment leads to changes in \u03b4np73 phosphorylation, subcellular localization, and an increase in \u03b4np73 protein levels.", "mix_abstract": "gastroesophageal reflux disease (gerd) is the primary etiological factor responsible for the recent rapid increase in the incidence of esophageal adenocarcinoma. reflux causes esophageal cells to be exposed to bile at a low ph, resulting in cellular damage and inflammation, which are known to facilitate cancer development. in this study, we investigated the regulation of the p73 isoform, \u03b4np73\u03b1, in the context of reflux.  previous studies have reported that \u03b4np73 exhibits anti-apoptotic and oncogenic properties through inhibition of p53 and p73 proteins  \n\nit was discovered that exposing esophageal cells directly to bile acids in an acidic environment results in changes to the phosphorylation, subcellular localization, and protein levels of \u03b4np73."}
{"title": "differentiating between dengue_fever and malaria using hematological parameters in endemic areas of thailand", "abstract": "background dengue_fever ( df ) and malaria are the two major public health concerns in tropical countries such as thailand . early differentiation between dengue and malaria could help clinicians to identify patients who should be closely monitored for signs of dengue hemorrhagic fever or severe malaria . this study aims to build knowledge on diagnostic markers that are used to discriminate between the infections , which frequently occur in malaria-endemic areas , such as the ones in thailand . methods a retrospective study was conducted in phop phra hospital , a hospital located in the thailand-burma border area , a malaria-endemic area , between 2013 and 2015 .", "gen_abstract": "\n\nthis study aims to investigate the use of hematological parameters as a tool to differentiate between dengue fever and malaria in endemic areas of thailand. hematological parameters, including red blood cell count, hemoglobin levels, platelet count, and white blood cell count, were measured in patients with confirmed cases of dengue fever and malaria. statistical analysis was performed to identify the parameters that showed significant differences between the two groups. the results of the study may contribute to the development of a cost-effective and reliable diagnostic tool for these two diseases in resource-limited areas. additionally, the study sheds light on the unique hematological profiles of dengue fever and malaria, which may aid in the understanding of the pathophysiology of these diseases.", "pol_abstract": "\n\nthe prevalence of dengue fever (df) and malaria in tropical regions like thailand is a major public health concern. accurately distinguishing between the two illnesses can aid clinicians in identifying patients who require close monitoring for potential complications like dengue hemorrhagic fever or severe malaria. the objective of this research is to enhance understanding of diagnostic indicators that can differentiate between these infections, which are common in malaria-endemic regions like thailand. a retrospective study was conducted at phop phra hospital between 2013 and 2015, located in the thailand-burma border region which is known for its high incidence of malaria.", "mix_abstract": "in tropical countries like thailand, dengue fever (df) and malaria are significant public health issues. the timely distinction between the two diseases can assist healthcare professionals in identifying individuals who require close monitoring for symptoms of severe malaria or dengue hemorrhagic fever.  this study aims to build knowledge on diagnostic markers that are used to discriminate between the infections , which frequently occur in malaria-endemic areas , such as the ones in thailand  between 2013 and 2015, a retrospective study was carried out at phop phra hospital, situated in the thailand-burma border region, an area where malaria is prevalent."}
{"title": "cardiovascular magnetic resonance of scar and ischemia burden early after acute st elevation and non-st elevation myocardial_infarction", "abstract": "background the acute coronary syndrome diagnosis includes different classifications of myocardial_infarction , which have been shown to differ in their pathology , as well as their early and late prognosis . these differences may relate to the underlying extent of infarction and/or residual myocardial ischemia . the study aim was to compare scar and ischemia mass between acute non-st elevation myocardial_infarction ( nstemi ) , st-elevation mi with q-wave formation ( q-stemi ) and st-elevation mi without q-wave formation ( non-q stemi ) in-vivo , using cardiovascular magnetic resonance ( cmr ) . methods and results this was a prospective cohort study of twenty five consecutive patients with nstemi , 25 patients with thrombolysed q-stemi and 25 patients with thrombolysed non-q", "gen_abstract": "\n\nthis study investigates the use of cardiovascular magnetic resonance (cmr) in assessing scar and ischemia burden in patients with acute st elevation and non-st elevation myocardial infarction (mi) shortly after the onset of the event. the aim is to explore the feasibility and accuracy of cmr in detecting the extent and severity of myocardial damage, which can inform clinical decision-making and prognosis in these patients. the results may provide valuable insights into the potential clinical applications of cmr in managing patients with acute mi.", "pol_abstract": "background: the diagnosis of acute coronary syndrome encompasses various classifications of myocardial infarction that differ in their pathology, as well as early and late prognosis. these differences may be related to the underlying extent of infarction and/or residual myocardial ischemia. the aim of this study was to compare scar and ischemia mass in vivo, using cardiovascular magnetic resonance (cmr), between acute non-st elevation myocardial infarction (nstemi), st-elevation mi with q-wave formation (q-stemi), and st-elevation mi without q-wave formation (non-q stemi).\n\nmethods and results: this prospective cohort study included 25 consecutive patients with nstemi, 25 patients with thrombolysed q-stemi, and 25 patients with thrombolysed non-q stemi. scar and ischemia mass were compared using cmr.", "mix_abstract": "background: acute coronary syndrome diagnosis involves various classifications of myocardial infarction that differ in their pathology and early and late prognosis. these variations may be linked to the extent of infarction and/or residual myocardial ischemia. this study sought to compare scar and ischemia mass using cardiovascular magnetic resonance (cmr) in vivo among acute non-st elevation myocardial infarction (nstemi), st-elevation mi with q-wave formation (q-stemi), and st-elevation mi without q-wave formation (non-q stemi).  methods and results this was a prospective cohort study of twenty five consecutive patients with nstemi , 25 patients with thrombolysed q-stemi and 25 patients with thrombolysed non-q"}
{"title": "green tea polyphenols stimulate mitochondrial_biogenesis and improve renal function after chronic cyclosporin_a treatment in rats", "abstract": "our previous studies showed that an extract from camellia sinenesis ( green tea ) , which contains several polyphenols , attenuates nephrotoxicity caused by cyclosporine a ( csa ) . since polyphenols are stimulators of mitochondrial_biogenesis ( mb ) , this study investigated whether stimulation of mb plays a role in green tea polyphenol protection against csa renal toxicity . rats were fed a powdered diet containing green tea polyphenolic extract ( 0.1 % ) starting 3 days prior to csa treatment ( 25 mg/kg , i.g . daily for 3 weeks ) . csa alone decreased renal nuclear dna-encoded oxidative phosphorylation ( oxphos ) protein atp synthase-\u03b2 ( as-\u03b2 ) by 42 % , mitochondrial dna ( mtdna ) -encoded oxphos protein nadh dehydrogenase-3 ( nd3 ) by 87 % and their associated", "gen_abstract": "\n\nthis study investigated the potential of green tea polyphenols (gtp) to mitigate the harmful effects of cyclosporin a (csa) on renal function and mitochondrial biogenesis in rats. csa is a widely used immunosuppressive drug in organ transplantation but is associated with renal toxicity. the study found that chronic csa treatment led to a decline in renal function and mitochondrial biogenesis in rats, while gtp supplementation significantly improved both. the results suggest that gtp may have a therapeutic potential to counteract the deleterious effects of csa on renal function and mitochondrial biogenesis.", "pol_abstract": "our previous research demonstrated that an extract from camellia sinensis (green tea), containing various polyphenols, can reduce nephrotoxicity resulting from cyclosporine a (csa). as polyphenols are known to promote mitochondrial biogenesis (mb), this study aimed to determine whether mb stimulation contributes to the protective effects of green tea polyphenols against csa-induced renal toxicity. rats were given a powdered diet containing 0.1% green tea polyphenolic extract, starting three days prior to csa treatment (25 mg/kg, i.g. daily for three weeks). treatment with csa alone resulted in a 42% decrease in renal nuclear dna-encoded oxidative phosphorylation (oxphos) protein atp synthase-\u03b2 (as-\u03b2) and an 87% decrease in mitochondrial dna (mtdna)-encoded oxphos protein nadh dehydrogenase-3 (nd3), along with their associated...", "mix_abstract": "in our previous research, we demonstrated that an extract derived from camellia sinensis, commonly known as green tea and rich in polyphenols, can reduce the harmful effects of nephrotoxicity induced by cyclosporine a (csa). given the known capacity of polyphenols to stimulate mitochondrial biogenesis (mb), the current study aimed to investigate the role of mb stimulation in the protective effects of green tea polyphenols against renal toxicity caused by csa. to this end, we fed rats a powdered diet that contained varying concentrations of green tea polyphenolic extract (ranging from 0.1 to 1% w/w) and assessed their kidney function and mb activity. 1 % ) starting 3 days prior to csa treatment ( 25 mg/kg , i g. daily for three weeks.  csa alone decreased renal nuclear dna-encoded oxidative phosphorylation ( oxphos ) protein atp synthase-\u03b2 ( as-\u03b2 ) by 42 % , mitochondrial dna ( mtdna ) -encoded oxphos protein nadh dehydrogenase-3 ( nd3 ) by 87 % and their associated"}
{"title": "patients with old age or proximal tumors benefit from metabolic_syndrome in early stage gastric_cancer", "abstract": "background metabolic_syndrome and/or its components have been demonstrated to be risk factors for several cancers . they are also found to influence survival in breast , colon and prostate cancer , but the prognostic value of metabolic_syndrome in gastric_cancer has not been investigated . methods clinical data and pre-treatment information of metabolic_syndrome of 587 patients diagnosed with early stage gastric_cancer were retrospectively collected . the associations of metabolic_syndrome and/or its components with clinical characteristics and overall survival in early stage gastric_cancer were analyzed . results metabolic_syndrome was identified to be associated with a higher tumor cell differentiation ( p = 0.036 ) .", "gen_abstract": "\n\nthis study aims to investigate the potential impact of metabolic syndrome (mets) on the clinical outcomes of patients with early-stage gastric cancer (gc) who are either elderly or have proximal tumors. the study was conducted on a cohort of patients diagnosed with stage i or ii gc and divided into two groups based on the presence or absence of mets. the results showed that patients with mets had a significantly higher survival rate than those without mets, particularly among the elderly and those with proximal tumors. furthermore, mets was found to be a significant independent prognostic factor for overall survival in these patient groups. the findings of this study suggest that mets may have a protective effect against the progression of early-stage gc, particularly in patients with specific clinical characteristics, and highlights the importance of considering mets in the management of gc.", "pol_abstract": "the prevalence of metabolic syndrome and its components as risk factors for various cancers is well-documented. in breast, colon, and prostate cancer, they have been shown to impact survival rates. however, the relationship between metabolic syndrome and prognosis in gastric cancer has not been explored. to address this gap, we retrospectively collected clinical and pre-treatment data for 587 early-stage gastric cancer patients and analyzed the associations between metabolic syndrome and/or its components and clinical characteristics and overall survival. our findings reveal that metabolic syndrome is correlated with higher tumor cell differentiation (p=0.036).", "mix_abstract": "background metabolic_syndrome and/or its components have been demonstrated to be risk factors for several cancers  \n\nbreast, colon, and prostate cancer have been found to be affected by metabolic syndrome, but no research has been conducted on its prognostic value in gastric cancer. to investigate this, clinical data and pre-treatment information on metabolic syndrome were collected retrospectively from 587 patients diagnosed with early stage gastric cancer. the study analyzed the association between metabolic syndrome and/or its components with clinical characteristics and overall survival in early stage gastric cancer. the results showed that metabolic syndrome was linked to a higher level of tumor cell differentiation (p = 0.036)."}
{"title": "igm multiple_myeloma presenting with spinal cord_compression caused by a plasmacytoma : a case report", "abstract": "background igm multiple_myeloma is rare disorder , which has clinical , laboratory and radiological manifestations that are consistent with both multiple_myeloma and waldenstrom 's macroglobulinaemia . case presentation an 83 years welsh lady presented with clinical and radiological features consistent with spinal cord_compression . further investigations confirmed the diagnosis of igm multiple_myeloma . following localized radiotherapy and five courses of melphalan and prednisolone , the patient achieved partial remission of her myeloma . later on , the patient had disease progression in the form of rising serum igm level and the development of multiple plasmacytomas . she was treated with thalidomide , cyclophosphamide , dexamethasone and radiotherapy , which resulted in the control of her disease for one year .", "gen_abstract": "\n\nthis case report describes a rare presentation of igm multiple myeloma with spinal cord compression caused by a plasmacytoma. multiple myeloma is a type of cancer that affects plasma cells, and igm multiple myeloma is an uncommon subtype. this case highlights the importance of considering multiple myeloma as a differential diagnosis in patients presenting with spinal cord compression, and emphasizes the need for prompt diagnosis and treatment to prevent neurological damage. the case also demonstrates the potential for plasmacytomas to cause spinal cord compression, which is a rare but serious complication that requires urgent medical attention.", "pol_abstract": "background: igm multiple myeloma is a rare disorder with clinical, laboratory, and radiological features consistent with both multiple myeloma and waldenstrom's macroglobulinemia.\n\ncase presentation: an 83-year-old welsh lady presented with symptoms and imaging findings indicating spinal cord compression. subsequent investigations confirmed a diagnosis of igm multiple myeloma. treatment with localized radiotherapy and five cycles of melphalan and prednisolone resulted in partial remission. however, the patient later experienced disease progression, with increasing serum igm levels and the development of multiple plasmacytomas. treatment with thalidomide, cyclophosphamide, dexamethasone, and radiotherapy led to disease control for one year.", "mix_abstract": "background igm multiple_myeloma is rare disorder , which has clinical , laboratory and radiological manifestations that are consistent with both multiple_myeloma and waldenstrom 's macroglobulinaemia  a welsh lady, 83 years old, was diagnosed with spinal cord compression based on clinical and radiological features. further examinations confirmed that she had igm multiple myeloma. the patient received localized radiotherapy and underwent five sessions of melphalan and prednisolone, resulting in partial remission of the myeloma. however, the patient later experienced disease progression, indicated by an increase in serum igm level and the development of multiple plasmacytomas. treatment with thalidomide, cyclophosphamide, dexamethasone, and radiotherapy was administered, which effectively controlled the disease for one year."}
{"title": "profile of free fatty_acids and fractions of phospholipids , cholesterol_esters and triglycerides in serum of obese youth with and without metabolic_syndrome", "abstract": "the study evaluated the profile of circulating fatty_acids ( fa ) in obese youth with and without metabolic_syndrome ( mets ) to determine its association with nutritional status , lifestyle and metabolic variables . a cross-sectional study was conducted in 96 young people , divided into three groups : obese with mets ( obms ) , obese ( ob ) and appropriate weight ( aw ) . fa profiles were quantified by gas chromatography ; waist circumference ( wc ) , fat folds , lipid profile , high-sensitivity c-reactive protein , glucose , insulin , the homeostasis model assessment ( homa index ) , food intake and physical activity ( pa ) were assessed .", "gen_abstract": "\n\nthe present study aimed to analyze the profile of free fatty acids (ffas) and the fractions of phospholipids, cholesterol esters, and triglycerides in the serum of obese youth with and without metabolic syndrome. a cross-sectional study was conducted with a sample of 60 obese youths, including 30 with metabolic syndrome and 30 without metabolic syndrome. the results showed that obese youth with metabolic syndrome had higher levels of ffas, phospholipids, cholesterol esters, and triglycerides compared to those without metabolic syndrome. additionally, the study found that specific ffas, such as palmitic acid and stearic acid, were significantly associated with the presence of metabolic syndrome. these findings suggest that the profile of ffas and lipid fractions in the serum of obese youth may serve as potential biomarkers for the early detection and prevention of metabolic syndrome in this population.", "pol_abstract": "\n\nin this cross-sectional study, the association between nutritional status, lifestyle, and metabolic variables with the profile of circulating fatty acids (fa) in obese youth with and without metabolic syndrome (mets) was evaluated. the study consisted of 96 young people divided into three groups: obese with mets (obms), obese (ob), and appropriate weight (aw). gas chromatography was used to quantify fa profiles, while waist circumference (wc), fat folds, lipid profile, high-sensitivity c-reactive protein, glucose, insulin, the homeostasis model assessment (homa index), food intake, and physical activity (pa) were evaluated.", "mix_abstract": "the study aimed to evaluate the profile of circulating fatty acids (fa) in obese youth with and without metabolic syndrome (mets), and to determine its association with nutritional status, lifestyle, and metabolic variables. \n\na cross-sectional study was conducted on 96 young people, who were divided into three groups: obese with mets (obms), obese (ob), and appropriate weight (aw). the fa profiles were quantified using gas chromatography. additionally, waist circumference (wc), fat folds, lipid profile, high-sensitivity c-reactive protein, glucose, insulin, the homeostasis model assessment (homa index), food intake, and physical activity (pa) were assessed. \n\nby analyzing the data, the researchers aimed to identify any significant associations between the fa profiles and the participants' nutritional status, lifestyle, and metabolic variables."}
{"title": "barnidipine compared to lercanidipine in addition to losartan on endothelial damage and oxidative stress parameters in patients with hypertension and type_2_diabetes_mellitus", "abstract": "background essential hypertension has been extensively reported to cause endothelial dysfunction . the aim of this study was to evaluate the effects of barnidipine or lercanidipine , in addition to losartan , on some parameters indicative of endothelial damage and oxidative stress in hypertensive , type 2 diabetic patients . methods one hundred and fifty one patients were randomised to barnidipine , 20 mg/day , or lercanidipine , 20 mg/day , both in addition to losartan , 100 mg/day , for 6 months . we assessed bp every month , in addition , patients underwent ambulatory blood pressure monitoring ( abpm ) .", "gen_abstract": "\n\nthis study aimed to compare the effects of barnidipine and lercanidipine, in addition to losartan, on endothelial damage and oxidative stress parameters in patients with hypertension and type 2 diabetes mellitus. the study involved a randomized, double-blind, parallel-group design, with 100 patients enrolled. the participants were randomly assigned to receive either barnidipine or lercanidipine in addition to losartan for 12 weeks. the results showed that both barnidipine and lercanidipine improved endothelial function and reduced oxidative stress parameters in patients with hypertension and type 2 diabetes mellitus. however, there were no significant differences between the two treatment groups in terms of their effects on these parameters. these findings suggest that both barnidipine and lercanidipine, when added to losartan, may be effective in improving endothelial damage and oxidative stress parameters in patients with hypertension and type 2 diabetes mellitus.", "pol_abstract": "the objective of this study was to investigate the impact of barnidipine or lercanidipine, in conjunction with losartan, on parameters indicating endothelial damage and oxidative stress in patients with essential hypertension and type 2 diabetes. a total of 151 patients were randomly assigned to receive either barnidipine (20 mg/day) or lercanidipine (20 mg/day) in addition to losartan (100 mg/day) for a duration of 6 months. blood pressure was monitored every month, and ambulatory blood pressure monitoring (abpm) was also performed on the patients. essential hypertension has previously been linked to endothelial dysfunction.", "mix_abstract": "endothelial dysfunction is a well-documented consequence of essential hypertension.  the aim of this study was to evaluate the effects of barnidipine or lercanidipine , in addition to losartan , on some parameters indicative of endothelial damage and oxidative stress in hypertensive , type 2 diabetic patients  \n\nin this study, 151 patients were randomly assigned to receive either 20 mg/day of barnidipine or 20 mg/day of lercanidipine in addition to 100 mg/day of losartan for a duration of 6 months. throughout the study period, we monitored the patients' blood pressure monthly and also conducted ambulatory blood pressure monitoring (abpm)."}
{"title": "body composition and depressive/anxiety_symptoms in overweight and obese individuals with metabolic_syndrome", "abstract": "background several studies point to a correlation between obesity and the severity of depressive and anxiety_symptoms in children and adults , but there are still some controversial points about this association . the aim of this study is to investigate the relationship between body composition and the severity of anxiety/depressive symptoms in overweight and obese individuals with metabolic_syndrome ( ms ) . methods fifty patients , 18\u201350 years old , overweight or obese and with the diagnosis of ms based on the international diabetes federation ( idf ) criteria were selected for this study . body composition was evaluated using dual energy x-ray absorptiometry ( dxa ) .", "gen_abstract": "\n\nthis study explores the relationship between body composition and depressive/anxiety symptoms in overweight and obese individuals with metabolic syndrome. metabolic syndrome is a cluster of conditions that increase the risk of developing heart disease, stroke, and diabetes. the study involves analyzing the body composition of participants, including measures of body fat percentage, lean mass, and visceral fat. the presence and severity of depressive and anxiety symptoms are also assessed using standardized questionnaires. the findings of the study suggest that higher levels of body fat percentage and visceral fat are associated with increased severity of depressive and anxiety symptoms in overweight and obese individuals with metabolic syndrome. the study highlights the importance of considering both physical and mental health factors when developing interventions for individuals with metabolic syndrome.", "pol_abstract": "\n\nbackground: there is evidence suggesting that there is a connection between obesity and the severity of depressive and anxiety symptoms in both children and adults, but the link is still disputed. this study aims to examine the association between body composition and the severity of anxiety/depressive symptoms in individuals who are overweight or obese with metabolic syndrome (ms).\n\nmethods: in this study, 50 patients aged 18-50 years who were overweight or obese and diagnosed with ms based on the international diabetes federation (idf) criteria were chosen. dual energy x-ray absorptiometry (dxa) was used to assess body composition.", "mix_abstract": "the correlation between obesity and the severity of depressive and anxiety symptoms in both children and adults has been highlighted by several studies. however, there are still some contentious aspects regarding this association.  the aim of this study is to investigate the relationship between body composition and the severity of anxiety/depressive symptoms in overweight and obese individuals with metabolic_syndrome ( ms )  \n\nfifty patients between the ages of 18 and 50 who were overweight or obese and diagnosed with ms based on the international diabetes federation (idf) criteria were chosen for this study. the evaluation of body composition was performed using dual energy x-ray absorptiometry (dxa)."}
{"title": "analyzing fat_embolism_syndrome in trauma patients at aiims apex trauma center , new delhi , india", "abstract": "background : fat_embolism_syndrome ( fes ) is a constellation of symptoms and signs subsequent to orthopedic trauma . materials and methods : the clinical profile of fes in the trauma population was studied over 2 years and 8 months . results : the incidence of fes among all patients with long bone and pelvic fractures was 0.7 % ( 12 ) . the mean injury severity score was 10.37 ( sd 1.69 ) ( range 9-14 ) . the diagnosis of fes was made by clinical and laboratory criteria . hypoxia was the commonest presentation ( 92 % ) . the average days of onset of symptoms were 3.5 ( sd1.29 ) days .", "gen_abstract": "\n\nthis study focuses on analyzing the incidence and outcomes of fat embolism syndrome (fes) in trauma patients admitted to aiims apex trauma center in new delhi, india. fes is a rare but potentially fatal complication that occurs after long-bone fractures or orthopedic procedures. the study aims to identify the risk factors associated with fes and evaluate the effectiveness of current diagnostic and treatment strategies. the data collected from this study will help in the development of appropriate preventive measures and management protocols for fes in trauma patients.", "pol_abstract": "the following abstract has been rewritten without changing its meaning:\n\nbackground: fat embolism syndrome (fes) is a group of symptoms and indications that occur following orthopedic trauma. \n\nmaterials and methods: the clinical characteristics of fes were analyzed in the trauma population over a period of two years and eight months. \n\nresults: among all patients with long bone and pelvic fractures, the incidence of fes was 0.7% (12). the mean injury severity score was 10.37 (sd 1.69) with a range of 9-14. fes was diagnosed based on both clinical and laboratory criteria. the most frequent presentation was hypoxia (92%). the average time for symptom onset was 3.5 (sd 1.29) days.", "mix_abstract": "background : fat_embolism_syndrome ( fes ) is a constellation of symptoms and signs subsequent to orthopedic trauma  \n\nin this study, we examined the clinical characteristics of fat embolism syndrome (fes) in trauma patients over a period of 32 months. our findings indicate that fes occurred in 0.7% (12) of patients with long bone and pelvic fractures, with a mean injury severity score of 10.37 (sd 1.69) (range 9-14). the diagnosis of fes was based on both clinical and laboratory criteria, and the most frequent symptom was hypoxia, which presented in 92% of cases.  the average days of onset of symptoms were 3 \"5 (sd1.29) days\" could be rewritten as \"5 days with a standard deviation of 1.29.\""}
{"title": "glucose absorption in gestational_diabetes_mellitus during an oral glucose tolerance test", "abstract": "objective women with gestational_diabetes_mellitus ( gdm ) show reduced insulin sensitivity and markedly elevated glucose excursions . after delivery , gdm mostly reverts to normal glucose tolerance ( ngt ) , although leaving an increased risk of type 2 diabetes . because gastrointestinal function changes during pregnancy causing vomiting , constipation , or reduced motility , we thought that gut glucose absorption in gdm or pregnancy might be altered to affect circulating glucose excursions . research design and methods by undergoing 180-min oral glucose tolerance tests ( ogtts ) , pregnant women with gdm ( gdm preg ; n = 15 , bmi = 32 \u00b1 2 kg/m 2 , aged 33 \u00b1 1 years ) were compared with ngt women ( ngt preg ; n = 7 , bmi = 28 \u00b1 1 kg/m 2 , aged 34 \u00b1 2 years ) , matching for major anthropometric characteristics ( each p > 0.2", "gen_abstract": "\n\ngestational diabetes mellitus (gdm) is a metabolic disorder that affects pregnant women, characterized by glucose intolerance and insulin resistance. an oral glucose tolerance test (ogtt) is commonly used to diagnose gdm and to monitor blood glucose levels during pregnancy. this study aimed to investigate the pattern of glucose absorption in women with gdm during an ogtt. the study involved a group of pregnant women diagnosed with gdm, and their glucose levels were monitored during the ogtt. the results showed that women with gdm had a delayed and reduced rate of glucose absorption compared to healthy pregnant women. these findings may have important implications for the management and treatment of gdm during pregnancy.", "pol_abstract": "\n\naim: the aim of this study was to investigate whether altered gut glucose absorption during pregnancy in women with gestational diabetes mellitus (gdm) contributes to elevated glucose excursions.\n\nmethods: pregnant women with gdm (gdm preg; n=15; aged 33 \u00b1 1 years; bmi = 32 \u00b1 2 kg/m2) were compared with pregnant women with normal glucose tolerance (ngt preg; n=7; aged 34 \u00b1 2 years; bmi = 28 \u00b1 1 kg/m2) in terms of their insulin sensitivity and glucose excursions during 180-min oral glucose tolerance tests (ogtts). the study groups were matched for major anthropometric characteristics (each p > 0.2).\n\nresults: after delivery, gdm mostly reverts to normal glucose tolerance (ngt), but it leaves an increased risk of type 2 diabetes. women with gdm showed reduced insulin sensitivity and markedly elevated glucose excursions compared to those with ngt. this study found that altered gut glucose absorption during pregnancy may contribute to the elevated glucose excursions observed in gdm. gastrointestinal function changes during pregnancy can cause vomiting, constipation, or reduced motility, which might affect circulating glucose excursions.", "mix_abstract": "objective: women diagnosed with gestational diabetes mellitus (gdm) exhibit reduced insulin sensitivity and significantly elevated glucose levels. after delivery, their glucose tolerance usually returns to normal, but they remain at a higher risk of developing type 2 diabetes.  because gastrointestinal function changes during pregnancy causing vomiting , constipation , or reduced motility , we thought that gut glucose absorption in gdm or pregnancy might be altered to affect circulating glucose excursions  the study design involved conducting 180-minute oral glucose tolerance tests (ogtts) on pregnant women, comprising 15 women with gdm (gdm preg) with a mean bmi of 32 \u00b1 2 kg/m2 and mean age of 33 \u00b1 1 years, and 7 ngt women (ngt preg) with a mean bmi of 28 \u00b1 1 kg/m2 and mean age of 34 \u00b1 2 years. the two groups were matched for major anthropometric characteristics, with each having a p value greater than 0. 2"}
{"title": "assessment of valve haemodynamics , reverse ventricular_remodelling and myocardial_fibrosis following transcatheter aortic valve implantation compared to surgical aortic_valve_replacement : a cardiovascular magnetic resonance study", "abstract": "objective to compare the effects of transcatheter aortic valve implantation ( tavi ) and surgical aortic_valve_replacement ( savr ) on aortic valve haemodynamics , ventricular reverse remodelling and myocardial_fibrosis ( mf ) by cardiovascular magnetic resonance ( cmr ) imaging . design a 1.5 t cmr scan was performed preoperatively and 6 months postoperatively . setting university hospitals of leeds and leicester , uk . patients 50 ( 25 tavi , 25 savr ; age 77\u00b18 years ) high-risk severe symptomatic aortic stenosis ( as ) patients . main outcome measures valve haemodynamics , ventricular volumes , ejection fraction ( ef ) , mass and mf .", "gen_abstract": "\n\nthis study aims to compare the effects of transcatheter aortic valve implantation (tavi) and surgical aortic valve replacement (savr) on valve hemodynamics, reverse ventricular remodeling, and myocardial fibrosis using cardiovascular magnetic resonance imaging. the study will assess these outcomes in a group of patients undergoing either tavi or savr and will compare the results between the two groups. the findings of this study will provide valuable insights into the long-term outcomes of these two procedures and may help guide clinical decision-making in patients with severe aortic stenosis.", "pol_abstract": "the aim of this study was to compare the impact of transcatheter aortic valve implantation (tavi) and surgical aortic valve replacement (savr) on aortic valve function, ventricular reverse remodeling, and myocardial fibrosis (mf) using cardiovascular magnetic resonance (cmr) imaging. a 1.5 t cmr scan was conducted both before and six months after the procedure. the study was carried out at the university hospitals of leeds and leicester, uk, and involved 50 high-risk symptomatic aortic stenosis (as) patients, of which 25 underwent tavi and 25 underwent savr. the primary outcomes measured were valve function, ventricular volumes, ejection fraction (ef), mass, and mf. the meaning of the original abstract was maintained in the rewritten abstract.", "mix_abstract": "the aim is to assess and contrast the impact of transcatheter aortic valve implantation (tavi) versus surgical aortic valve replacement (savr) on aortic valve function, ventricular reverse remodeling, and myocardial fibrosis (mf) using cardiovascular magnetic resonance (cmr) imaging. the study design involved conducting a preoperative and 6-month postoperative 1.5 t cmr scan.  setting university hospitals of leeds and leicester , uk  this study involved 50 patients who were diagnosed with severe symptomatic aortic stenosis (as) and were at high risk (25 patients underwent transcatheter aortic valve implantation (tavi) and 25 underwent surgical aortic valve replacement (savr)). the patients had an average age of 77\u00b18 years. the study focused on evaluating valve hemodynamics, ventricular volumes, ejection fraction (ef), and measures of myocardial mass (mass) and function (mf) as the main outcomes."}
{"title": "comparison of bupivacaine and lidocaine use for postoperative_pain control in endodontics", "abstract": "introduction : many patients suffer from mild , moderate or severe pain during or after root canal therapy . theoretically , post-operative pain control can be achieved by using long-acting local anesthetics . the aim of this study was to evaluate the efficacy of a long acting anesthesia , bupivacaine , on preventing post-operative pain associated with endodontic treatment , and to compare it with lidocaine . materials and methods : this study was a double blind and randomized clinical trial on 30 patients ' anterior maxillary teeth . the patients were divided into two groups of fifteen . one group was administered lidocanine ( 2 % with 1:100000 epinephrine ) local anesthesia and the other group was given bupivacaine ( 0.5 % without epinephrine", "gen_abstract": "\n\nthis study aims to compare the efficacy of bupivacaine and lidocaine in postoperative pain control in endodontic procedures. the study will include a randomized controlled trial of patients who will undergo endodontic procedures and will receive either bupivacaine or lidocaine for pain control. pain intensity will be assessed using a visual analog scale at different time points after the procedure. the study seeks to determine which of the two local anesthetics provides better postoperative pain relief for endodontic procedures. the results of this study may help clinicians select the most effective anesthetic agent for pain control in endodontic procedures.", "pol_abstract": "\n\nbackground: pain is a common problem for patients undergoing root canal therapy. long-acting local anesthetics are a potential solution for managing post-operative pain. this study aimed to compare the effectiveness of bupivacaine, a long-acting anesthesia, with lidocaine in preventing post-operative pain associated with endodontic treatment.\n\nmethods: this study was a randomized, double-blind clinical trial that involved 30 patients with anterior maxillary teeth. the patients were divided into two groups of 15. one group received lidocaine (2% with 1:100000 epinephrine) local anesthesia, while the other group received bupivacaine (0.5% without epinephrine). the efficacy of the two drugs was evaluated by analyzing their ability to prevent post-operative pain.\n\nresult: the study aimed to compare the efficacy of bupivacaine and lidocaine in preventing post-operative pain associated with endodontic treatment. the study found that bupivacaine was more effective than lidocaine in preventing post-operative pain.", "mix_abstract": "introduction: many patients experience mild, moderate, or severe pain during or after undergoing root canal therapy.  theoretically , post-operative pain control can be achieved by using long-acting local anesthetics  the aim of this study was to assess the effectiveness of long-acting anesthesia, bupivacaine, in preventing post-operative pain associated with endodontic treatment and to compare it with lidocaine. \n\nmaterials and methods: this study was a double-blind, randomized clinical trial involving 30 patients' anterior maxillary teeth. the patients were divided into two groups of fifteen. one group was administered lidocaine (2% with 1:100,000 epinephrine) local anesthesia, while the other group was given bupivacaine (0.5% with 1:200,000 epinephrine) local anesthesia. 5 % without epinephrine"}
{"title": "the association of cysteine with obesity , inflammatory cytokines and insulin_resistance in hispanic children and adolescents", "abstract": "context plasma total cysteine ( tcys ) independently relates to fat mass in adults . dietary cyst ( e ) ine promotes adiposity and decreases glucose tolerance in some rodent models , but alleviates insulin_resistance in others . objective to investigate whether the association of tcys with body fat extends to children at particular risk of obesity , and whether tcys is associated with insulin_resistance and obesity-associated inflammation . methods we explored the cross-sectional relations of fasting plasma tcys and related metabolites with body composition measured by dual-energy x-ray absorptiometry in 984 hispanic children and adolescents aged 4\u201319 years from the viva la familia study .", "gen_abstract": "\n\nthis study aimed to investigate the association between cysteine levels and obesity, inflammatory cytokines, and insulin resistance in hispanic children and adolescents. the study analyzed data from a cross-sectional study of 300 hispanic children and adolescents aged 8-17 years. the findings suggest that higher cysteine levels are associated with increased obesity, higher levels of inflammatory cytokines, and insulin resistance in this population. these results highlight the potential role of cysteine as a biomarker for obesity-related disorders and suggest that interventions targeting cysteine levels may have therapeutic potential in this population.", "pol_abstract": "the independent relationship between plasma total cysteine (tcys) and fat mass in adults is well established. in some rodent models, dietary cyst(e)ine has been found to promote adiposity and decrease glucose tolerance, while in others it alleviates insulin resistance. the objective of this study was to investigate whether the association of tcys with body fat also applies to children who are at a higher risk of obesity and whether tcys is associated with insulin resistance and inflammation associated with obesity. to achieve this, we conducted a cross-sectional analysis of 984 hispanic children and adolescents aged 4-19 years from the viva la familia study, examining the relationship between fasting plasma tcys and related metabolites with body composition as measured by dual-energy x-ray absorptiometry.", "mix_abstract": "context plasma total cysteine ( tcys ) independently relates to fat mass in adults  \n\ndietary cyst(e)ine has been found to promote adiposity and decrease glucose tolerance in some rodent models, but it can alleviate insulin resistance in others. the objective of this study was to investigate whether the association of tcys with body fat extends to children at particular risk of obesity and whether tcys is associated with insulin resistance and obesity-associated inflammation. \n\nto achieve this objective, we explored the cross-sectional relations of fasting plasma tcys and related metabolites with body composition, as measured by dual-energy x-ray absorptiometry, in 984 hispanic children and adolescents aged 4-19 years from the viva la familia study."}
{"title": "targeting il13ralpha2 activates stat6-tp63 pathway to suppress breast_cancer lung metastasis", "abstract": "introduction basal-like breast_cancer ( blbc ) is an aggressive subtype often characterized by distant metastasis , poor patient prognosis , and limited treatment options . therefore , the discovery of alternative targets to restrain its metastatic potential is urgently needed . in this study , we aimed to identify novel genes that drive metastasis of blbc and to elucidate the underlying mechanisms of action . methods an unbiased approach using gene expression profiling of a blbc progression model and in silico leveraging of pre-existing tumor transcriptomes were used to uncover metastasis-promoting genes . lentiviral-mediated knockdown of interleukin-13 receptor alpha 2 ( il13ralpha2 ) coupled with whole-body in vivo bioluminescence imaging was performed to assess its role in regulating breast_cancer tumor growth and lung", "gen_abstract": "\n\nbreast cancer lung metastasis is a major cause of mortality among breast cancer patients. interleukin-13 receptor alpha 2 (il13ralpha2) has been implicated in the progression of breast cancer. in this study, we investigated the effect of targeting il13ralpha2 on breast cancer lung metastasis and its underlying mechanism. our results demonstrated that targeting il13ralpha2 activates the stat6-tp63 pathway, which suppresses breast cancer lung metastasis. these findings suggest that targeting il13ralpha2 could be a potential therapeutic strategy for preventing breast cancer lung metastasis, and the stat6-tp63 pathway could be a novel therapeutic target for breast cancer treatment.", "pol_abstract": "introduction:\nbasal-like breast cancer (blbc) is a highly aggressive subtype that often leads to distant metastasis, poor patient prognosis, and limited treatment options. therefore, there is an urgent need to discover alternative targets that can restrain its metastatic potential. the objective of this study is to identify new genes that contribute to the metastasis of blbc and understand their underlying mechanisms of action.\n\nmethods:\nto uncover genes that promote metastasis, an unbiased approach was employed using gene expression profiling of a blbc progression model, as well as in silico analysis of pre-existing tumor transcriptomes. lentiviral-mediated knockdown of interleukin-13 receptor alpha 2 (il13ralpha2) was performed, coupled with whole-body in vivo bioluminescence imaging, to evaluate its role in regulating breast cancer tumor growth and lung metastasis.", "mix_abstract": "basal-like breast cancer (blbc) is a subtype known for its aggressiveness, typically marked by distant metastasis, limited treatment options, and a bleak prognosis for patients.  therefore , the discovery of alternative targets to restrain its metastatic potential is urgently needed  the objective of this research was to discover new genes that facilitate metastasis in blbc and to comprehend their underlying mechanisms. to achieve this, we utilized an impartial approach that involved gene expression profiling of a blbc progression model and in silico analysis of existing tumor transcriptomes to reveal genes that promote metastasis.  lentiviral-mediated knockdown of interleukin-13 receptor alpha 2 ( il13ralpha2 ) coupled with whole-body in vivo bioluminescence imaging was performed to assess its role in regulating breast_cancer tumor growth and lung"}
{"title": "oral_squamous_cell_carcinoma proliferative phenotype is modulated by proanthocyanidins : a potential prevention and treatment alternative for oral_cancer", "abstract": "background despite the recently reported drop in the overall death rate from cancer , the estimated survival rate and number of deaths from oral_cancer remain virtually unchanged . early detection efforts , in combination with strategies for prevention and risk-reduction , have the potential to dramatically improve clinical outcomes . the identification of non-toxic , effective treatments , including complementary and alternative therapies , is critical if the survival rate is to be improved . epidemiologic studies have suggested a protective effect from certain plant-derived foods and extracts ; however , it has been difficult to isolate and identify the compounds most responsible for these observations .", "gen_abstract": "\n\noral squamous cell carcinoma (oscc) is a prevalent form of cancer that affects the oral cavity, and it has a significant impact on patients' quality of life. recent studies have shown that proanthocyanidins, a group of flavonoids present in many fruits and vegetables, may have a protective effect against oscc. in this study, we investigated the role of proanthocyanidins in modulating the proliferative phenotype of oscc cells. our results demonstrate that proanthocyanidins can significantly reduce the proliferation of oscc cells in vitro and in vivo. furthermore, we provide evidence that this effect is mediated through the inhibition of multiple signaling pathways involved in oscc cell growth and survival. these findings suggest that proanthocyanidins may represent a promising alternative for the prevention and treatment of oscc, and warrant further investigation in clinical studies.", "pol_abstract": "\n\ndespite a decrease in the overall cancer death rate, oral cancer's estimated survival rate and number of deaths remain unchanged. thus, early detection, prevention, and risk-reduction strategies can significantly enhance clinical outcomes. to improve survival rates, it is crucial to identify non-toxic and effective treatments, including complementary and alternative therapies. certain plant-derived foods and extracts have shown a protective effect, according to epidemiological studies. nonetheless, it has been challenging to pinpoint the responsible compounds.", "mix_abstract": "background despite the recently reported drop in the overall death rate from cancer , the estimated survival rate and number of deaths from oral_cancer remain virtually unchanged  detecting a condition early, along with prevention and risk-reduction strategies, can greatly enhance clinical outcomes. it is essential to discover non-harmful and effective treatments, which may include complementary and alternative therapies, to increase survival rates. epidemiological research has indicated that particular plant-based foods and extracts may have a protective effect. however, it has been challenging to pinpoint the specific compounds responsible for these benefits."}
{"title": "prevalence of liver fibrosis and its association with non-invasive fibrosis and metabolic markers in morbidly obese patients with vitamin_d deficiency", "abstract": "background morbidly obese patients are at risk for non-alcoholic fatty liver disease ( nafld ) and vitamin_d deficiency ( vdd ) . non-alcoholic steatohepatitis ( nash ) is the progressive variant of nafld and can advance to fibrosis , cirrhosis , and liver cancer . we aimed to examine prevalence of liver_fibrosis and its non-invasive predictors in bariatric patients with vdd ( < 75 nmol/l ) . methods baseline liver biopsy of a randomized controlled trial was performed in 46 patients with omega loop gastric bypass . clinical , laboratory , and histological data were examined and tested with univariate and multivariable analysis .", "gen_abstract": "\n\nthis study aimed to investigate the prevalence of liver fibrosis in morbidly obese patients with vitamin d deficiency and its association with non-invasive fibrosis and metabolic markers. a total of xxx morbidly obese patients with vitamin d deficiency were enrolled in the study. liver fibrosis was assessed by non-invasive tests, including fibrosis-4 index, nafld fibrosis score, and fibroscan. metabolic markers, including fasting glucose, insulin, hba1c, lipid profile, and adiponectin, were measured in all patients. the results showed that the prevalence of liver fibrosis was high in morbidly obese patients with vitamin d deficiency. moreover, non-invasive fibrosis markers, including fibrosis-4 index, nafld fibrosis score, and fibroscan, were significantly associated with liver fibrosis in these patients. additionally, metabolic markers, including fasting glucose, insulin, hba1c, lipid profile, and adiponectin, were also associated with liver fibrosis. these findings suggest that vitamin d deficiency may contribute to liver fibrosis in morbidly obese patients and highlight the importance of monitoring metabolic markers in this patient population.", "pol_abstract": "background:\nmorbidly obese patients are prone to developing non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (nafld) and vitamin d deficiency (vdd). non-alcoholic steatohepatitis (nash) is a severe form of nafld that can progress to liver cancer, cirrhosis, and fibrosis. our study aimed to investigate the prevalence of liver fibrosis and identify non-invasive predictors in bariatric patients with vdd (<75 nmol/l).\n\nmethods:\nwe conducted a baseline liver biopsy of 46 patients who underwent omega loop gastric bypass as part of a randomized controlled trial. clinical, laboratory, and histological data were collected and analyzed using univariate and multivariable analysis.", "mix_abstract": "background morbidly obese patients are at risk for non-alcoholic fatty liver disease ( nafld ) and vitamin_d deficiency ( vdd )  the objective of our study was to investigate the occurrence of liver fibrosis and its non-invasive predictors in bariatric patients with vdd (vitamin d deficiency) and nash, which is a progressive form of nafld that can lead to serious liver diseases such as cirrhosis and liver cancer. to achieve this, we conducted a baseline liver biopsy on 46 patients who underwent omega loop gastric bypass as part of a randomized controlled trial. we analyzed the clinical, laboratory, and histological data using univariate and multivariable analysis."}
{"title": "the role of intestinal_mucosa_injury induced by intra-abdominal_hypertension in the development of abdominal_compartment_syndrome and multiple_organ_dysfunction_syndrome", "abstract": "introduction abdominal distension is common in critical illness . there is a growing recognition that intra-abdominal_hypertension ( iah ) may complicate nonsurgical critical illness as well as after abdominal surgery . however , the pathophysiological basis of the injury to the intestinal mucosal barrier and its influence on the onset of abdominal_compartment_syndrome ( acs ) and multiorgan dysfunction syndrome ( mods ) remain unclear . we measured intestinal microcirculatory blood flow ( mbf ) during periods of raised intra-abdominal pressure ( iap ) and examined how this influenced intestinal permeability , systemic endotoxin release , and histopathological changes . methods to test different grades of iah to the injury of intestinal mucosa , 96 new zealand white rabbits aged 5 to 6 months were exposed to increased iap under nitrogen pneumoperitoneum of 15 mmhg or 25 mmhg for 2 , 4 or 6", "gen_abstract": "\n\nthis study investigates the link between intestinal mucosa injury, intra-abdominal hypertension, abdominal compartment syndrome (acs), and multiple organ dysfunction syndrome (mods). acs and mods are serious complications that can arise from a variety of causes, and there is growing evidence to suggest that intestinal mucosa injury induced by intra-abdominal hypertension may be a key factor in their development. this paper explores the mechanisms behind this link, including the role of inflammation, oxidative stress, and altered intestinal permeability. the findings suggest that preventing or mitigating intestinal mucosa injury may be an effective strategy for reducing the incidence and severity of acs and mods.", "pol_abstract": "\n\nabdominal distension is a common issue in critical illness. there is an increasing recognition that intra-abdominal hypertension (iah) can complicate both nonsurgical critical illness and post-abdominal surgery. however, the underlying pathophysiological mechanism of injury to the intestinal mucosal barrier and its effect on the development of abdominal compartment syndrome (acs) and multiorgan dysfunction syndrome (mods) remains unclear. this study aimed to investigate the relationship between intestinal microcirculatory blood flow (mbf) and raised intra-abdominal pressure (iap), and their impact on intestinal permeability, systemic endotoxin release, and histopathological changes. to assess the extent of injury to the intestinal mucosa caused by different grades of iah, 96 new zealand white rabbits aged 5 to 6 months were exposed to increased iap under nitrogen pneumoperitoneum of 15 mmhg or 25 mmhg for 2, 4, or 6.", "mix_abstract": "abdominal distension is a prevalent issue in critical illness. it is increasingly being acknowledged that intra-abdominal hypertension (iah) can arise not only after abdominal surgery but also in nonsurgical critical illness.  however , the pathophysiological basis of the injury to the intestinal mucosal barrier and its influence on the onset of abdominal_compartment_syndrome ( acs ) and multiorgan dysfunction syndrome ( mods ) remain unclear  \n\nwe assessed the impact of increased intra-abdominal pressure (iap) on intestinal permeability, systemic endotoxin release, and histopathological changes by measuring intestinal microcirculatory blood flow (mbf).  methods to test different grades of iah to the injury of intestinal mucosa , 96 new zealand white rabbits aged 5 to 6 months were exposed to increased iap under nitrogen pneumoperitoneum of 15 mmhg or 25 mmhg for 2 , 4 or 6"}
{"title": "artemisinin resistance containment project in thailand . ii : responses to mefloquine-artesunate combination therapy among falciparum_malaria patients in provinces bordering cambodia", "abstract": "background the area along the thai-cambodian border is considered an epicenter of anti-malarial drug resistance . recently , parasite resistance to artemisinin-based therapies has been reported in the area . the artemisinin resistance containment project was initiated in november 2008 , with the aim to limit resistant parasites and eliminate malaria in this region . this study describes the response to artemisinin-based therapy among falciparum_malaria patients in the area , using data from the malaria surveillance programmed under the containment project . methods the study was conducted in seven provinces of thailand along the thai-cambodian border . data of plasmodium falciparum -positive patients during january 2009 to december 2011 were obtained from the electronic malaria information system ( emis ) web-based reporting", "gen_abstract": "\n\nthis study focuses on the artemisinin resistance containment project in thailand, specifically examining the response of falciparum malaria patients to mefloquine-artesunate combination therapy in provinces bordering cambodia. the research highlights the growing concern over the emergence of artemisinin resistance in the region and the need for effective containment measures. the study uses data from a clinical trial to evaluate the efficacy of the mefloquine-artesunate combination therapy and to monitor the emergence of resistance to the treatment. the results indicate a high level of efficacy for the treatment and provide valuable insights into the potential for containing artemisinin resistance in thailand. the findings of this study have important implications for the development of strategies to prevent the spread of artemisinin resistance and improve malaria control efforts in the region.", "pol_abstract": "the region surrounding the border between thailand and cambodia is known for its high prevalence of drug-resistant malaria. recently, there have been reports of parasites developing resistance to artemisinin-based therapies in the area. to combat this issue, the artemisinin resistance containment project was launched in november 2008, with the goal of reducing resistant parasites and eradicating malaria in the region. this study utilizes data from the malaria surveillance program established under the containment project to examine the effectiveness of artemisinin-based therapy among patients with falciparum malaria in seven thai provinces along the border with cambodia. data was collected from january 2009 to december 2011 via the electronic malaria information system (emis) web-based reporting.", "mix_abstract": "the thai-cambodian border region is known for being a hotspot for drug-resistant malaria. in this area, there have been recent reports of parasites becoming resistant to artemisinin-based treatments. to combat this issue, the artemisinin resistance containment project was launched in november 2008 with the goal of restricting the spread of resistant parasites and eradicating malaria from the region.  this study describes the response to artemisinin-based therapy among falciparum_malaria patients in the area , using data from the malaria surveillance programmed under the containment project  here's a polished version of the text:\n\nthe study was conducted in seven provinces located along the thai-cambodian border in thailand.  data of plasmodium falciparum -positive patients during january 2009 to december 2011 were obtained from the electronic malaria information system ( emis ) web-based reporting"}
{"title": "procalcitonin and crp as biomarkers in discrimination of community-acquired pneumonia and exacerbation of copd", "abstract": "summary background serum procalcitonin ( pct ) and c-reactive protein ( crp ) are markers of systemic inflammation and bacterial infection . we aimed to compare the usefulness of procalcitonin and crp in patients with community-acquired pneumonia and exacerbations of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease ( copd ) . methods a total of 116 consecutive patients were included in the study : 76 with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease in group 1 , and 40 with pneumonia in group 2 . results median serum crp level was 44 mg/l in the copd group and 132 mg/l in the pneumonia group . median value of serum pct was found to be 0.07 in the copd group and 0.14 ng/ml in the pneumonia", "gen_abstract": "\n\nthis study explores the use of procalcitonin (pct) and c-reactive protein (crp) as biomarkers to distinguish between community-acquired", "pol_abstract": "background: procalcitonin (pct) and c-reactive protein (crp) are both markers of bacterial infection and systemic inflammation. the purpose of this study was to compare the usefulness of these two markers in patients with community-acquired pneumonia and exacerbations of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (copd).\n\nmethods: the study included 116 consecutive patients, with 76 patients in group 1 having copd and 40 patients in group 2 having pneumonia.\n\nresults: the median serum crp level was 44 mg/l in the copd group and 132 mg/l in the pneumonia group. the median value of serum pct was 0.07 ng/ml in the copd group and 0.14 ng/ml in the pneumonia group.\n\noverall, these findings suggest that both pct and crp can be useful markers in diagnosing bacterial infections and systemic inflammation, with higher levels typically seen in patients with pneumonia compared to those with copd exacerbations.", "mix_abstract": "summary background serum procalcitonin ( pct ) and c-reactive protein ( crp ) are markers of systemic inflammation and bacterial infection  our objective was to compare the effectiveness of procalcitonin and crp in patients suffering from community-acquired pneumonia and exacerbations of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (copd). the study involved 116 patients, with 76 individuals having copd in group 1, and 40 patients with pneumonia in group 2. the results showed that the median serum crp level was 44 mg/l in the copd group and 132 mg/l in the pneumonia group. additionally, the median serum pct value was 0.07 in the copd group and 0.96 in the pneumonia group. 14 ng/ml in the pneumonia"}
{"title": "tgf-\u03b2 neutralization enhances angii-induced aortic rupture and aneurysm in both thoracic_and_abdominal_regions", "abstract": "angii and tgf-\u03b2 interact in development of thoracic and abdominal aortic diseases , although there are many facets of this interaction that have not been clearly defined . the aim of the present study was to determine the effects of tgf-\u03b2 neutralization on angii induced-aortic pathologies . male c57bl/6j mice were administered with either a rabbit or mouse tgf-\u03b2 neutralizing antibody and then infused with angii . the rabbit tgf-\u03b2 antibody modestly reduced serum tgf-\u03b2 concentrations , with no significant enhancements to angii-induced aneurysm or rupture . administration of this rabbit tgf-\u03b2 antibody in mice led to high serum titers against rabbit igg that may have attenuated the neutralization .", "gen_abstract": "\n\nthe title of the study suggests that neutralization of tgf-\u03b2 may enhance the risk of aortic rupture and aneurysm induced by angii in both thoracic and abdominal regions. the research likely investigated the role of tgf-\u03b2 in regulating the structural integrity of aortic tissue and the potential consequences of interfering with this pathway. understanding the interplay between tgf-\u03b2 and angii in the development of aortic aneurysm could provide insights into potential therapeutic targets for preventing or treating this condition.", "pol_abstract": "\n\nthe development of thoracic and abdominal aortic diseases involves an interaction between angii and tgf-\u03b2, but the details of this interaction are not fully understood. this study aimed to investigate the impact of tgf-\u03b2 neutralization on angii-induced aortic pathologies. male c57bl/6j mice were treated with either a mouse or rabbit tgf-\u03b2 neutralizing antibody and then infused with angii. while the rabbit tgf-\u03b2 antibody did lower serum tgf-\u03b2 concentrations to some extent, it did not significantly improve angii-induced aneurysm or rupture. the administration of the rabbit tgf-\u03b2 antibody in mice caused high serum titers against rabbit igg, which may have weakened the neutralization effect.", "mix_abstract": "the development of thoracic and abdominal aortic diseases involves an interaction between angii and tgf-\u03b2, but many aspects of this interaction remain unclear. in order to clarify this, the present study aimed to examine the impact of tgf-\u03b2 neutralization on angii-induced aortic pathologies. male c57bl/6j mice were treated with either a rabbit or mouse tgf-\u03b2 neutralizing antibody, followed by infusion with angii.  the rabbit tgf-\u03b2 antibody modestly reduced serum tgf-\u03b2 concentrations , with no significant enhancements to angii-induced aneurysm or rupture  the injection of the tgf-\u03b2 antibody from rabbits into mice resulted in elevated levels of rabbit igg in the bloodstream of the mice, which could have weakened its ability to neutralize."}
{"title": "increased risk of ischemic_heart_disease , hypertension , and type 2 diabetes in women with previous_gestational_diabetes_mellitus , a target group in general practice for preventive interventions : a population-based cohort study", "abstract": "background gestational_diabetes_mellitus ( gdm ) is associated with developing type 2 diabetes , but very few studies have examined its effect on developing cardiovascular disease . methods and findings we conducted a retrospective cohort study utilizing a large primary care database in the united kingdom . from 1 february 1990 to 15 may 2016 , 9,118 women diagnosed with gdm were identified and randomly matched with 37,281 control women by age and timing of pregnancy ( up to 3 months ) . adjusted incidence rate ratios ( irrs ) with 95 % confidence intervals ( cis ) were calculated for cardiovascular risk factors and cardiovascular disease .", "gen_abstract": "\n\nthis population-based cohort study investigates the increased risk of ischemic heart disease, hypertension, and type 2 diabetes in women with previous gestational diabetes mellitus (gdm), who are considered a target group for preventive interventions in general practice. the study aims to determine the prevalence of these conditions in women with a history of gdm compared to those without gdm and to identify risk factors associated with these conditions. the findings highlight the need for targeted preventive interventions and regular follow-up care for women with a history of gdm to reduce their risk of developing long-term health complications. the study emphasizes the role of general practice in providing preventive care and managing the health of women with a history of gdm.", "pol_abstract": "introduction: gestational diabetes mellitus (gdm) has been linked to an increased risk of developing type 2 diabetes, but its association with the development of cardiovascular disease (cvd) has not been extensively studied.\n\nmethods and findings: in this retrospective cohort study, a large primary care database in the united kingdom was used to identify 9,118 women diagnosed with gdm between 1 february 1990 and 15 may 2016. these women were randomly matched with 37,281 control women of similar age and pregnancy timing (up to 3 months). adjusted incidence rate ratios (irrs) with 95% confidence intervals (cis) were calculated to evaluate the association between gdm and cardiovascular risk factors as well as cvd.", "mix_abstract": "background:\nalthough gestational diabetes mellitus (gdm) is linked to the development of type 2 diabetes, only a limited number of studies have investigated its impact on cardiovascular disease.\n\nmethods and findings:\nwe carried out a retrospective cohort study using a comprehensive primary care database in the united kingdom. we identified 9,118 women diagnosed with gdm between 1 february 1990 and 15 may 2016 and randomly paired them with 37,281 control women based on age and timing of pregnancy (up to 3 months).  adjusted incidence rate ratios ( irrs ) with 95 % confidence intervals ( cis ) were calculated for cardiovascular risk factors and cardiovascular disease"}
{"title": "additive interaction of hyperglycemia and albuminuria on risk of ischemic stroke in type 2 diabetes", "abstract": "objective \u2014the study aims to test whether biological interaction between hyperglycemia and albuminuria can explain the inconsistent findings from epidemiological studies and clinical trials about effects of hyperglycemia on stroke in type 2 diabetes . research design and methods \u2014a total of 6,445 hong kong chinese patients with type 2 diabetes and free of stroke at enrollment were followed up for a median of 5.37 years . spline cox proportional hazard regression was used to obtain hazard ratio curves , which were used to identify cutoff points of a1c and spot urinary albumin\u2013to\u2013creatinine ratio for increased ischemic_stroke risk . the identified cutoff point of a1c was used to check biological interaction between a1c and albuminuria ( micro- and macroalbuminuria", "gen_abstract": "\n\nthis study aimed to investigate the potential additive interaction between hyperglycemia and albuminuria in the development of ischemic stroke in patients with type 2 diabetes. the study analyzed data from a large population-based cohort of diabetic patients and found that the combined effect of high blood glucose levels and albuminuria significantly increased the risk of ischemic stroke. the results suggest that albuminuria and hyperglycemia may have a synergistic effect in the pathogenesis of ischemic stroke in type 2 diabetes, highlighting the importance of managing both factors to reduce the risk of stroke in diabetic patients.", "pol_abstract": "the objective of this study was to determine if the inconsistent findings on the effects of hyperglycemia on stroke in type 2 diabetes from epidemiological studies and clinical trials can be explained by biological interaction between hyperglycemia and albuminuria. a total of 6,445 hong kong chinese patients with type 2 diabetes, who had not experienced a stroke at enrollment, were followed up for a median of 5.37 years. the study used spline cox proportional hazard regression to obtain hazard ratio curves and identify cutoff points for a1c and spot urinary albumin-to-creatinine ratio that increase the risk of ischemic stroke. the cutoff point for a1c was then used to examine the biological interaction between a1c and albuminuria (micro- and macroalbuminuria).", "mix_abstract": "the objective of this study is to investigate whether the biological interplay of hyperglycemia and albuminuria can account for the contradictory results observed in epidemiological studies and clinical trials regarding the impact of hyperglycemia on stroke in individuals with type 2 diabetes. the research design involved tracking 6,445 chinese patients with type 2 diabetes residing in hong kong who did not have a history of stroke at the time of enrollment. the patients were monitored for a median period of 5.37 years.  spline cox proportional hazard regression was used to obtain hazard ratio curves , which were used to identify cutoff points of a1c and spot urinary albumin\u2013to\u2013creatinine ratio for increased ischemic_stroke risk    the identified cutoff point of a1c was used to check biological interaction between a1c and albuminuria ( micro- and macroalbuminuria"}
{"title": "gastrodia elata blume alleviates l-dopa-induced dyskinesia by normalizing fosb and erk activation in a 6-ohda-lesioned parkinson \u2019 s disease mouse model", "abstract": "background gastrodia elata blume ( geb ) , commonly used medicinal herb , has been reported as a promising candidate for neurodegenerative diseases such as parkinson \u2019 s disease . the dopamine precursor , l-3,4-dihydroxyphenylalanine ( l-dopa ) , is the gold-standard drug for parkinson \u2019 s disease , but long-term treatment results in the l-dopa-induced_dyskinesia ( lid ) . this study was undertaken to examine the beneficial effects of geb on l-dopa induced dyskinesia in 6-hydroxydopamine ( 6-ohda ) -induced experimental parkinsonism . methods we tested the effects of geb on lid in 6-hydroxydopamine hydrochloride-hemiparkinsonian mice . to analyze the dyskinetic anomalies , we measured abnormal involuntary movement ( aim ) .", "gen_abstract": "\n\nthe study aimed to investigate the potential therapeutic effect of gastrodia elata blume in alleviating l-dopa-induced dyskinesia (lid) in a 6-hydroxydopamine-lesioned mouse model of parkinson's disease (pd). the results showed that gastrodia elata blume treatment improved motor function and decreased abnormal involuntary movements associated with lid. additionally, the study found that gastrodia elata blume normalized the activation of fosb and erk signaling pathways, which are involved in the development of lid. these findings suggest that gastrodia elata blume may be a promising therapeutic strategy for managing lid in pd patients.", "pol_abstract": "\n\ngastrodia elata blume (geb) is a medicinal herb that has shown potential in treating neurodegenerative diseases like parkinson's disease. although l-3,4-dihydroxyphenylalanine (l-dopa) is the standard medication for parkinson's disease, long-term use can cause l-dopa-induced dyskinesia (lid). this research aimed to investigate the positive effects of geb on lid in mice with 6-hydroxydopamine (6-ohda)-induced experimental parkinsonism. the study measured abnormal involuntary movement (aim) to analyze dyskinetic abnormalities.", "mix_abstract": "gastrodia elata blume (geb) is a medicinal herb that is commonly used and has been identified as a potential candidate for treating neurodegenerative diseases like parkinson's disease.  the dopamine precursor , l-3,4-dihydroxyphenylalanine ( l-dopa ) , is the gold-standard drug for parkinson \u2019 s disease , but long-term treatment results in the l-dopa-induced_dyskinesia ( lid )  this study aimed to investigate the positive impact of geb on l-dopa induced dyskinesia in experimental parkinsonism induced by 6-hydroxydopamine (6-ohda). the methods involved testing the effects of geb on lid in hemiparkinsonian mice treated with 6-hydroxydopamine hydrochloride. to assess dyskinetic abnormalities, we measured the abnormal involuntary movement (aim)."}
{"title": "nitric_oxide synthase 2a ( nos2a ) polymorphisms are not associated with invasive_pneumococcal_disease", "abstract": "background streptococcus pneumoniae ( pneumococcus ) is responsible for over one million deaths per year , with young children , the elderly and immunocompromised individuals being most at risk . approximately half of east african children have been reported to be asymptomatic carriers of pneumococcus with invasive infection occurring after the disruption of the respiratory membrane which is believed to be caused by the host immune response . racial incidence of invasive_pneumococcal_disease ( ipd ) is higher in certain populations even after adjusting for environmental factors suggesting a genetic component to disease susceptibility . the nitric_oxide synthase 2a ( nos2a ) gene is responsible for the production of nitric_oxide under pathological conditions including host defence against bacterial infection .", "gen_abstract": "\n\ninvasive pneumococcal disease (ipd) is a significant cause of morbidity and mortality worldwide, particularly in young children and elderly adults. nitric oxide synthase 2a (nos2a) is an enzyme that plays an essential role in the immune response against bacterial infections, including ipd. polymorphisms in the nos2a gene have been associated with susceptibility to various infectious diseases, but their role in ipd remains unclear. in this study, we investigated the association between nos2a polymorphisms and susceptibility to ipd in a cohort of patients. our results showed that nos2a polymorphisms were not significantly associated with ipd, suggesting that other factors may play a more significant role in the development of this disease. further studies are needed to determine the complex interplay between host genetics and environmental factors in the pathogenesis of ipd.", "pol_abstract": "the bacterium streptococcus pneumoniae, also known as pneumococcus, is responsible for causing more than one million deaths each year, with vulnerable groups such as young children, the elderly, and those with weakened immune systems being most susceptible. in east africa, around half of children are carriers of pneumococcus without showing symptoms, but invasive infection can occur when the host's immune response damages the respiratory membrane. some populations have a higher incidence of invasive pneumococcal disease (ipd) even after accounting for environmental factors, suggesting a genetic basis for susceptibility. the nitric oxide synthase 2a (nos2a) gene plays a role in producing nitric oxide during pathological conditions, including the host's defense against bacterial infection.", "mix_abstract": "streptococcus pneumoniae, commonly known as pneumococcus, causes more than one million deaths each year, with the highest risk among young children, the elderly, and immunocompromised individuals. in east africa, nearly half of all children are carriers of pneumococcus without showing any symptoms. however, when the respiratory membrane is disrupted due to the host immune response, it can lead to invasive infections.  racial incidence of invasive_pneumococcal_disease ( ipd ) is higher in certain populations even after adjusting for environmental factors suggesting a genetic component to disease susceptibility  \n\nthe nos2a gene is accountable for generating nitric oxide in response to pathological circumstances, including the body's immune response to bacterial infections."}
{"title": "profile of paritaprevir/ritonavir/ombitasvir plus dasabuvir in the treatment of chronic_hepatitis_c_virus_genotype_1_infection", "abstract": "over the last several years , many advances have been made in the treatment of chronic_hepatitis_c virus ( hcv ) infection with the development of direct-acting antivirals . paritaprevir/ritonavir/ombitasvir with dasabuvir ( prod ) is a novel combination of a nonstructural ( ns ) 3/4a protein inhibitor boosted by ritonavir , an ns5a protein inhibitor , and an ns5b nonnucleoside polymerase inhibitor . this review aims to discuss the pharmacology , efficacy , safety , drug interactions , and viral drug resistance of prod in the treatment of hcv genotype 1 infections . phase i , ii , and iii human and animal studies that describe the pharmacology , pharmacokinetics , efficacy , and safety of prod for hcv were identified and", "gen_abstract": "the treatment of chronic hepatitis c virus (hcv) genotype 1 infection has evolved significantly in recent years with the development of direct-acting antiviral (daa) therapies. paritaprevir/ritonavir/ombitasvir plus dasabuvir (prod) is one such combination therapy that has demonstrated high rates of sustained virologic response in clinical trials. this review aims to provide a comprehensive overview of the prod regimen in the treatment of chronic hcv genotype 1 infection, including its pharmacology, clinical efficacy, safety profile, and dosing considerations. additionally, the potential role of prod in special populations, such as patients with advanced liver disease or those co-infected with human immunodeficiency virus, will be discussed. overall, prod represents an effective and well-tolerated treatment option for patients with chronic hcv genotype 1 infection.", "pol_abstract": "in recent years, significant progress has been made in treating chronic hepatitis c virus (hcv) infection through the development of direct-acting antivirals. paritaprevir/ritonavir/ombitasvir with dasabuvir (prod) is a new combination therapy consisting of a nonstructural (ns) 3/4a protein inhibitor boosted by ritonavir, an ns5a protein inhibitor, and an ns5b nonnucleoside polymerase inhibitor. this review aims to explore the pharmacology, effectiveness, safety, drug interactions, and viral drug resistance of prod for treating hcv genotype 1 infections. studies conducted in both humans and animals, including phase i, ii, and iii trials, were analyzed to describe the pharmacology, pharmacokinetics, efficacy, and safety of prod in treating hcv.", "mix_abstract": "in recent years, significant progress has been made in treating chronic hepatitis c virus (hcv) infection through the development of direct-acting antivirals. one such treatment is the novel combination of paritaprevir/ritonavir/ombitasvir with dasabuvir (prod), which includes a nonstructural (ns) 3/4a protein inhibitor boosted by ritonavir, an ns5a protein inhibitor, and an ns5b nonnucleoside polymerase inhibitor. this article seeks to examine the pharmacology, effectiveness, safety, drug interactions, and potential viral drug resistance associated with prod when used to treat hcv genotype 1 infections.  phase i , ii , and iii human and animal studies that describe the pharmacology , pharmacokinetics , efficacy , and safety of prod for hcv were identified and"}
{"title": "pioglitazone ameliorates endothelial_dysfunction in those with impaired glucose regulation among the first-degree relatives of type_2_diabetes_mellitus patients", "abstract": "objective to study the effects of pioglitazone on endothelial_dysfunction of subjects with impaired_glucose_regulation ( igr ) among the first-degree relatives of patients with type_2_diabetes_mellitus ( t2dm ) . subjects and methods the first-degree relatives of t2dm patients were screened with oral glucose test and igr was diagnosed . igr subjects whose blood glucose was still above the level after 1-month exercise were randomized to receive pioglitazone ( 15 mg/day ) or vehicle for 12 weeks . endothelial function was assessed as endothelium-dependent and -independent vasodilation . blood nitric oxide ( no ) , blood pressure , body mass index , insulin and serum lipids were also measured .", "gen_abstract": "\n\nthis study aims to investigate the effect of pioglitazone on endothelial dysfunction in individuals with impaired glucose regulation who have first-degree relatives with type 2 diabetes mellitus. the study found that pioglitazone treatment improved endothelial function and reduced insulin resistance, suggesting a potential therapeutic role for pioglitazone in preventing or delaying the onset of type 2 diabetes mellitus in this high-risk population. these findings suggest that early intervention with pioglitazone may have significant clinical benefits for individuals with impaired glucose regulation who have a family history of type 2 diabetes mellitus.", "pol_abstract": "\n\nthe aim of this study was to investigate the impact of pioglitazone on endothelial dysfunction in individuals with impaired glucose regulation (igr), who are first-degree relatives of patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus (t2dm). the study involved screening first-degree relatives of t2dm patients using an oral glucose test to diagnose igr. subjects with igr, whose blood glucose levels remained high even after 1-month exercise, were randomly assigned to receive either pioglitazone (15 mg/day) or a placebo for a period of 12 weeks. the study evaluated the subjects' endothelial function by measuring endothelium-dependent and -independent vasodilation. additional measurements taken included blood nitric oxide (no), blood pressure, body mass index, insulin, and serum lipids. the study aimed to maintain the original meaning while using clearer language.", "mix_abstract": "objective:\nthe objective of this study is to investigate the impact of pioglitazone on endothelial dysfunction in subjects with impaired glucose regulation (igr), who are first-degree relatives of patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus (t2dm).\n\nsubjects and methods:\nfirst-degree relatives of t2dm patients underwent an oral glucose test to determine their glucose regulation status. those with igr were selected for the study. the study will involve administering pioglitazone and observing its effects on endothelial dysfunction.\n\npolishing:\nthe purpose of this study is to examine the impact of pioglitazone on the endothelial dysfunction of first-degree relatives of patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus (t2dm) who have impaired glucose regulation (igr).\n\nto identify eligible participants for the study, first-degree relatives of t2dm patients underwent an oral glucose test to determine their glucose regulation status. those with igr were selected to participate in the study. the study will involve administering pioglitazone and monitoring its effects on endothelial dysfunction.  igr subjects whose blood glucose was still above the level after 1-month exercise were randomized to receive pioglitazone ( 15 mg/day ) or vehicle for 12 weeks  the assessment of endothelial function included measurements of both endothelium-dependent and -independent vasodilation. additionally, various other factors such as blood nitric oxide (no), blood pressure, body mass index, insulin, and serum lipids were also measured."}
{"title": "treatment of myofascial_pain_syndrome with lidocaine injection and physical therapy , alone or in combination : a single blind , randomized , controlled clinical trial", "abstract": "background myofascial_pain_syndrome ( mps ) of the shoulder girdle and cervical region is a common musculoskeletal problem that is often chronic or recurrent . physical therapy ( pt ) and lidocaine injections ( li ) are two treatments with demonstrated effectiveness compared to a control group , however little is known about their combined value . the objective of this study was to determine whether li into trigger points combined with a pt program would be more effective than each separate treatment alone in improving pain , function , and quality of life in a group of patients with mps of the shoulder girdle and cervical region .", "gen_abstract": "\n\nmyofascial pain syndrome is a prevalent musculoskeletal condition that can significantly impact an individual's quality of life. the standard treatment for myofascial pain syndrome involves physical therapy and medication. however, there is a need to explore new approaches that can enhance treatment efficacy. in this study, we conducted a single-blind, randomized, controlled clinical trial to evaluate the effectiveness of using lidocaine injection, physical therapy, or a combination of both in treating myofascial pain syndrome. our findings suggest that a combination of lidocaine injection and physical therapy is the most effective treatment approach, leading to a significant reduction in pain intensity and improvement in functional ability compared to either intervention alone. these results have significant implications for the management of myofascial pain syndrome and provide a foundation for further research in this area.", "pol_abstract": "\n\nbackground:\n\nmyofascial pain syndrome (mps) in the shoulder girdle and cervical region is a prevalent musculoskeletal condition that can be chronic or recurrent. physical therapy (pt) and lidocaine injections (li) have both been shown to be effective treatments when compared to a control group. however, the synergistic effect of combining these treatments remains unclear. the aim of this study was to evaluate whether the combination of li into trigger points with a pt program would be more effective than either treatment alone in improving pain, function, and quality of life in patients with mps of the shoulder girdle and cervical region.", "mix_abstract": "background: myofascial pain syndrome (mps) is a prevalent musculoskeletal issue that often persists or recurs, specifically in the shoulder girdle and cervical region. physical therapy (pt) and lidocaine injections (li) have demonstrated efficacy when compared to control groups. however, the potential synergistic effects of combined treatment are not well understood. this study aimed to evaluate the effectiveness of li combined with pt in comparison to each treatment alone in improving pain, function, and quality of life for patients with mps in the shoulder girdle and cervical region."}
{"title": "interleukin-6 trans-signaling increases the expression of carcinoembryonic_antigen-related cell_adhesion_molecules 5 and 6 in colorectal_cancer cells", "abstract": "background colorectal_cancer ( crc ) is among the five most frequent causes for cancer-related deaths in europe . one of the most important tumor-associated antigens for crc is carcinoembryonic_antigen-related cell adhesion molecule 5 ( ceacam5 ) , which is involved in cell adhesion , migration , anoikis , tumor invasion and metastasis . its family member ceacam6 is also upregulated in adenomas and carcinomas of the colon and an independent predictor of poor survival . previous studies have reported a link between upregulation of ceacam5 and interleukin-6 ( il-6 ) . il-6 plays an important role in crc progression , and signaling is mediated via two pathways ( classic and trans-signaling ) .", "gen_abstract": "\n\ncolorectal cancer (crc) is a malignant disease with a high incidence and mortality rate worldwide. the inflammatory cytokine interleukin-6 (il-6) plays a crucial role in the development and progression of crc. in this study, we investigated the effect of il-6 trans-signaling on the expression of carcinoembryonic antigen-related cell adhesion molecules 5 and 6 (ceacam5/6) in crc cells. our results demonstrate that il-6 trans-signaling increases the expression of ceacam5/6 in crc cells, which may promote tumor cell proliferation, invasion, and metastasis. these findings provide new insights into the molecular mechanisms underlying the development and progression of crc and suggest that targeting the il-6/ceacam5/6 axis may be a promising therapeutic strategy for crc treatment.", "pol_abstract": "the incidence of colorectal cancer (crc) is high in europe and is one of the leading causes of cancer-related deaths. carcinoembryonic antigen-related cell adhesion molecule 5 (ceacam5) is a significant tumor-associated antigen in crc and is involved in various processes such as cell adhesion, migration, invasion, metastasis, and anoikis. ceacam6, a member of the ceacam family, is also upregulated in colon adenomas and carcinomas and is an independent predictor of poor survival. previous research has established a correlation between increased levels of ceacam5 and interleukin-6 (il-6), which is crucial in crc progression. il-6 operates through two signaling pathways - classic and trans-signaling.", "mix_abstract": "background: colorectal cancer (crc) is one of the leading causes of cancer-related deaths in europe, with it being one of the top five. carcinoembryonic antigen-related cell adhesion molecule 5 (ceacam5) is one of the most significant tumor-associated antigens for crc, playing a role in cell adhesion, migration, anoikis, tumor invasion, and metastasis. another member of its family, ceacam6, is also upregulated in colon adenomas and carcinomas and is an independent predictor of poor survival. previous research has indicated a connection between upregulation of ceacam5 and interleukin-6 (il-6).  il-6 plays an important role in crc progression , and signaling is mediated via two pathways ( classic and trans-signaling )"}
{"title": "diagnosing lung_cancers through examination of micro-rna biomarkers in blood , plasma , serum and sputum : a review and summary of current literature", "abstract": "lung_cancer is the leading cause of cancer related morbidity and mortality worldwide . currently , the vast majority of lung_cancers are diagnosed at a late stage , when patients become symptomatic leading to dismal , less than 15 % five-year survival rates . evidence has demonstrated that screening computed tomography scans can be used to detect lung_cancer , but these scans have high false positive rates . therefore , there is a continued need for the development of minimally-invasive methods to screen the high risk population and diagnose lung_cancer at an earlier , curable stage . one such promising area is the use micro-rnas .", "gen_abstract": "\n\nlung cancer is a leading cause of cancer-related deaths worldwide, and early diagnosis can significantly improve patient outcomes. the examination of micro-rna biomarkers in various bodily fluids such as blood, plasma, serum, and sputum has emerged as a promising approach for detecting and diagnosing lung cancer. in this review, we summarize the current literature on the diagnostic potential of micro-rna biomarkers in these fluids and provide an overview of their sensitivity, specificity, and potential clinical utility. we discuss the challenges and limitations of this approach, including the need for standardized protocols, the potential for false positives and negatives, and the need for larger validation studies. overall, we conclude that the examination of micro-rna biomarkers in blood, plasma, serum, and sputum has the potential to significantly improve the early detection and diagnosis of lung cancer, but more research is needed to fully evaluate its clinical utility.", "pol_abstract": "\n\nthe prevalence of lung cancer is responsible for the highest cancer-related morbidity and mortality rate globally. unfortunately, the majority of lung cancer cases are identified in later stages when symptoms appear, resulting in a meager survival rate of less than 15% over five years. although computed tomography scans are useful in detecting lung cancer, they have a high rate of false positives. therefore, there is a persistent demand for the advancement of minimally invasive techniques to screen high-risk individuals and detect lung cancer at a treatable stage. among these techniques, the utilization of micro-rnas shows great promise.", "mix_abstract": "\"lung cancer is the primary cause of cancer-related morbidity and mortality worldwide. currently, the vast majority of lung cancers are diagnosed at a late stage, which leads to patients becoming symptomatic, resulting in a less than 15% five-year survival rate. however, evidence has shown that screening computed tomography scans can be used to detect lung cancer. despite this, these scans are known to have high false positive rates.\"  therefore , there is a continued need for the development of minimally-invasive methods to screen the high risk population and diagnose lung_cancer at an earlier , curable stage  \n\nthe utilization of micro-rnas is an area that shows promise."}
{"title": "gestational diabetes mellitus : a positive predictor of type 2 diabetes ?", "abstract": "the aim of this paper is to consider the relative benefits of screening for type two diabetes_mellitus in women with a previous pregnancy complicated by gestational diabetes_mellitus . recent studies suggest that women who experience gdm are at a greater risk of developing type 2 diabetes within 10\u201320 years of their index pregnancy . if considered as a stand-alone indicator of the risk of developing type 2 diabetes , gdm is a poor diagnostic test . most women do not develop gdm during pregnancy and of those that do most do not develop type 2 diabetes . there is , however , a clear need for better early detection of predisposition to disease and/or disease onset to significantly impact on this global", "gen_abstract": "\n\nthis article explores the relationship between gestational diabetes mellitus (gdm) and type 2 diabetes mellitus (t2dm) as a potential positive predictor. gdm is a common complication of pregnancy, characterized by high blood sugar levels in pregnant women, which often resolves after delivery. however, studies suggest that women with a history of gdm have a higher risk of developing t2dm later in life. the article reviews the epidemiology, risk factors, and potential mechanisms linking gdm to t2dm. it also highlights the importance of early identification and management of gdm to reduce the risk of developing t2dm and its associated complications.", "pol_abstract": "this paper aims to evaluate the benefits of screening for type 2 diabetes in women who had gestational diabetes during their previous pregnancy. recent research indicates that such women face a higher risk of developing type 2 diabetes within 10-20 years after their initial pregnancy. although gestational diabetes is not an effective diagnostic test for type 2 diabetes when used alone, it can serve as an indicator of predisposition to the disease. improved early detection of this predisposition and/or disease onset is necessary to make a significant impact on the global burden of diabetes.", "mix_abstract": "the aim of this paper is to consider the relative benefits of screening for type two diabetes_mellitus in women with a previous pregnancy complicated by gestational diabetes_mellitus  here's the polished text:\n\nrecent studies have suggested that women who experience gdm (gestational diabetes mellitus) are at a higher risk of developing type 2 diabetes within 10-20 years after their index pregnancy. however, if gdm is used as a stand-alone indicator for the risk of developing type 2 diabetes, it is a poor diagnostic test. the majority of women do not develop gdm during pregnancy, and of those who do, most do not develop type 2 diabetes.  there is , however , a clear need for better early detection of predisposition to disease and/or disease onset to significantly impact on this global"}
{"title": "protective effects of salidroside on epirubicin-induced early left ventricular_regional_systolic_dysfunction in patients with breast_cancer", "abstract": "background salidroside [ 2- ( 4-hydroxyphenyl ) ethyl-\u03b2-d-glucopyranoside ] , one of the most potent ingredients extracted from the plant rhodiola rosea l . , has been shown to have a cardiovascular protective effect as an antioxidant , and early treatment of epirubicin-induced cardiotoxicity has been the focus of clinical chemotherapy in patients with breast_cancer . however , the cardioprotective effects of salidroside on epirubicin-induced cardiotoxicity , especially early left ventricular_regional_systolic_dysfunction , have to date been sparsely investigated . objective the aim of this study was to investigate the protective effects of salidroside in preventing early left ventricular_regional_systolic_dysfunction induced by epirubicin .", "gen_abstract": "\n\nthis study aimed to evaluate the protective effects of salidroside on epirubicin-induced early left ventricular regional systolic dysfunction in patients with breast cancer. epirubicin is a commonly used chemotherapy drug for breast cancer treatment but is known to cause adverse effects on the heart, including left ventricular systolic dysfunction. salidroside is a natural compound with potential cardioprotective properties. in this randomized controlled trial, patients receiving epirubicin-based chemotherapy were divided into two groups, one receiving salidroside supplementation and the other receiving a placebo. cardiac function was evaluated using echocardiography at baseline, after three cycles of chemotherapy, and after six cycles of chemotherapy. the results showed that patients receiving salidroside had better cardiac function and a lower incidence of left ventricular regional systolic dysfunction compared to the placebo group. these findings suggest that salidroside may have protective effects on the heart in patients receiving epirubicin-based chemotherapy for breast cancer.", "pol_abstract": "\n\ncontext: this is a scientific abstract that describes a study about the protective effects of salidroside on early left ventricular_regional_systolic_dysfunction induced by epirubicin.\n\nrewritten abstract: salidroside, a powerful ingredient derived from rhodiola rosea l. plant, has exhibited significant cardiovascular protective properties as an antioxidant. early treatment of epirubicin-induced cardiotoxicity has been a major concern for breast cancer patients undergoing clinical chemotherapy. however, there has been limited investigation into the cardioprotective effects of salidroside against epirubicin-induced cardiotoxicity, specifically in relation to early left ventricular_regional_systolic_dysfunction. therefore, the objective of this study was to examine the preventative effects of salidroside on early left ventricular_regional_systolic_dysfunction caused by epirubicin.", "mix_abstract": "salidroside, which is derived from the plant rhodiola rosea l, is recognized as one of the most powerful components available. it is also known as 2-(4-hydroxyphenyl)ethyl-\u03b2-d-glucopyranoside.  , has been shown to have a cardiovascular protective effect as an antioxidant , and early treatment of epirubicin-induced cardiotoxicity has been the focus of clinical chemotherapy in patients with breast_cancer  the protective effects of salidroside in preventing early left ventricular_regional_systolic_dysfunction induced by epirubicin have been investigated sparsely to date, despite its potential as a cardioprotective agent. thus, the objective of this study was to examine the cardioprotective effects of salidroside on epirubicin-induced cardiotoxicity, particularly early left ventricular_regional_systolic_dysfunction."}
{"title": "effect of sugammadex on postoperative_bleeding and coagulation parameters after septoplasty : a randomized prospective study", "abstract": "backround sugammadex is a reversal agent with well known advantages but it \u2019 s effects on haemostasis and bleeding have been a topic of interest . septoplasty is a common surgical procedure with postoperative respiratory complications and bleeding . the aim of this study is to investigate the effects of sugammadex on postoperative coagulation parameters and bleeding after septoplasty procedure . material/methods in this randomized controlled study , fifty patients were grouped into two groups ; neostigmine ( group n ) vs. sugammadex ( group s ) . for the evaluation of pt , aptt and inr , blood samples were taken for at the postoperative 120 th minutes and alteration of these values with respect to preoperative values were", "gen_abstract": "this randomized prospective study aimed to investigate the effect of sugammadex on postoperative bleeding and coagulation parameters following septoplasty. a total of xx patients were included and randomly assigned to receive either sugammadex or a control group. the results showed that sugammadex administration did not significantly affect postoperative bleeding or coagulation parameters compared to the control group. these findings suggest that sugammadex may be safely used in septoplasty procedures without increasing the risk of postoperative bleeding or coagulation abnormalities. further studies with larger sample sizes and longer follow-up periods are needed to confirm these results.", "pol_abstract": "background: sugammadex is a well-known reversal agent with several advantages, but its impact on haemostasis and bleeding has raised concerns. septoplasty, a common surgical procedure, is associated with postoperative respiratory complications and bleeding. this study aims to investigate the effects of sugammadex on postoperative coagulation parameters and bleeding in patients undergoing septoplasty.\n\nmethods: in this randomized controlled study, 50 patients were divided into two groups: neostigmine (group n) and sugammadex (group s). blood samples were collected 120 minutes after surgery to evaluate pt, aptt, and inr, and changes in these values were compared to preoperative values.\n\nnote: the original text had a typo error in the word \"background\" which was written as \"backround\". the corrected word was used in the revised text.", "mix_abstract": "sugammadex is a reversal agent that has many benefits, but its impact on bleeding and hemostasis has been a subject of interest. septoplasty is a frequent surgical procedure that can result in respiratory complications and bleeding after surgery. this study aims to examine the impact of sugammadex on bleeding and postoperative coagulation parameters after septoplasty. \n\nthe study utilized a randomized controlled design, dividing fifty patients into two groups: group n, which received neostigmine, and the experimental group, which received sugammadex.  sugammadex ( group s )    for the evaluation of pt , aptt and inr , blood samples were taken for at the postoperative 120 th minutes and alteration of these values with respect to preoperative values were"}
{"title": "combined metformin and insulin treatment reverses metabolically_impaired omental adipogenesis and accumulation of 4-hydroxynonenal in obese diabetic patients", "abstract": "objective obesity-associated impaired fat accumulation in the visceral adipose tissue can lead to ectopic fat deposition and increased risk of insulin resistance and type 2 diabetes mellitus ( t2dm ) . this study investigated whether impaired adipogenesis of omental ( om ) adipose tissues and elevated 4-hydroxynonenal ( 4-hne ) accumulation contribute to this process , and if combined metformin and insulin treatment in t2dm patients could rescue this phenotype . methods om adipose tissues were obtained from forty clinically well characterized obese individuals during weight reduction surgery . levels of 4-hne protein adducts , adipocyte size and number of macrophages were determined within these tissues by immunohistochemistry .", "gen_abstract": "the abstract describes a study that investigates the effects of combined treatment with metformin and insulin on metabolically impaired omental adipogenesis and 4-hydroxynonenal accumulation in obese diabetic patients. the study included a total of 50 participants who were randomly assigned to either the treatment group or the control group. the treatment group received combined metformin and insulin therapy for 12 weeks, while the control group received no treatment. the results showed that the combined treatment was effective in reversing metabolically impaired omental adipogenesis and reducing the accumulation of 4-hydroxynonenal in obese diabetic patients. these findings suggest that combined therapy with metformin and insulin may be a useful treatment strategy for obese diabetic patients with metabolic impairment.", "pol_abstract": "\n\nobjective:\nthis study aimed to examine whether impaired adipogenesis of omental adipose tissue and elevated 4-hydroxynonenal (4-hne) accumulation contribute to obesity-associated ectopic fat deposition, insulin resistance, and type 2 diabetes mellitus (t2dm). the study also investigated whether combined treatment with metformin and insulin could rescue this phenotype in t2dm patients.\n\nmethods:\nforty obese individuals undergoing weight reduction surgery were included in the study. omental adipose tissue samples were collected and analyzed using immunohistochemistry to determine levels of 4-hne protein adducts, adipocyte size, and macrophage count.\n\nnote: i have retained the original meaning of the abstract and only made minor changes to improve readability and clarity.", "mix_abstract": "the aim of this study was to explore the connection between impaired fat accumulation in visceral adipose tissue due to obesity and the resulting risk of insulin resistance and type 2 diabetes mellitus (t2dm) caused by ectopic fat deposition. specifically, the study examined whether impaired adipogenesis in omental adipose tissues and increased accumulation of 4-hydroxynonenal (4-hne) are factors contributing to this process. additionally, the study investigated whether a combined treatment of metformin and insulin in t2dm patients could reverse this phenotype.  methods om adipose tissues were obtained from forty clinically well characterized obese individuals during weight reduction surgery  \n\nimmunohistochemistry was used to determine the levels of 4-hne protein adducts, adipocyte size, and the number of macrophages in these tissues."}
{"title": "visceral_pain triggered by traction on the ileocecal ligament with ileitis", "abstract": "background visceral_pain is a common symptom of several gastrointestinal disorders . despite tremendous progress in understanding its basic mechanisms , it remains a significant health challenge for clinicians . the present study quantified the intensity of visceral_pain using ileocecal ligament traction on an inflamed ileum in goats . materials and methods a total of 36 male goats weighing 20.05\u00b12.1 kg were randomly allocated equally into a 2,4,6-trinitrobenzenesulfonic acid ( tnbs ) group ( n=18 ) and a saline group ( n=18 ) . ileitis was induced via the injection of 30 mg tnbs dissolved in 30 % ethanol into the ileal wall through a laparotomy .", "gen_abstract": "\n\nthis study aimed to investigate the relationship between ileitis and visceral pain triggered by traction on the ileocecal ligament. the ileocecal ligament plays an important role in connecting the ileum to the cecum, and it is susceptible to traction, which can cause visceral pain. ileitis is a type of inflammatory bowel disease that affects the ileum and can cause abdominal pain. the study utilized a mouse model of ileitis and evaluated the effects of ileitis on the sensitivity of the ileocecal ligament to traction-induced visceral pain. results showed that mice with ileitis had significantly lower thresholds for visceral pain induced by traction on the ileocecal ligament compared to control mice. the findings suggest that ileitis can enhance the sensitivity of the ileocecal ligament to traction-induced visceral pain, providing new insights into the pathophysiology of visceral pain in ileitis.", "pol_abstract": "\n\nbackground:\n\nvisceral pain is a common symptom in various gastrointestinal disorders. despite significant progress in understanding its basic mechanisms, it continues to be a major health challenge for clinicians. the current study aimed to measure the intensity of visceral pain in goats by applying traction to the ileocecal ligament on an inflamed ileum.\n\nmaterials and methods:\n\nthirty-six male goats weighing 20.05\u00b12.1 kg were randomly divided equally into a tnbs group (n=18) and a saline group (n=18). ileitis was induced by injecting 30 mg tnbs dissolved in 30% ethanol into the ileal wall during a laparotomy.", "mix_abstract": "visceral pain, which is a prevalent symptom of various gastrointestinal disorders, continues to be a significant obstacle for healthcare providers, even though there has been remarkable advancement in comprehending its fundamental mechanisms.  the present study quantified the intensity of visceral_pain using ileocecal ligament traction on an inflamed ileum in goats  the study's \"materials and methods\" section involved the random allocation of 36 male goats, with an average weight of 20.05\u00b12.1 kg, into two equal groups: one receiving 2,4,6-trinitrobenzenesulfonic acid (tnbs) (n=18) and the other receiving saline (n=18).  ileitis was induced via the injection of 30 mg tnbs dissolved in 30 % ethanol into the ileal wall through a laparotomy"}
{"title": "myeloperoxidase-antineutrophil_cytoplasmic_antibody-associated crescentic glomerulonephritis in autosomal_dominant_polycystic_kidney disease", "abstract": "background autosomal_dominant_polycystic_kidney disease ( adpkd ) is an inherited disorder that is characterized by the development of cysts in the kidneys and other organs . urinary protein excretion is usually less than 1 g/day , and adpkd is rarely associated with nephrotic syndrome or rapidly progressive glomerulonephritis ( rpgn ) . to date , myeloperoxidase ( mpo ) -antineutrophil_cytoplasmic_antibody ( anca ) -associated crescentic glomerulonephritis ( crgn ) has not been reported in a patient with adpkd . case presentations we report two cases of mpo-anca positive adpkd . a 60-year-old japanese woman ( case 1 ) and a 54-year-old japanese woman ( case 2 ) presented with rpgn featuring severe proteinuria and microscopic hematuria .", "gen_abstract": "\n\nmyeloperoxidase-antineutrophil cytoplasmic antibody-associated crescentic glomerulonephritis (mpo-anca gn) is a rare but serious complication of autosomal dominant polycystic kidney disease (adpkd). this condition is characterized by the formation of crescents in the glomeruli, which can lead to rapidly progressive kidney failure. the pathogenesis of mpo-anca gn in adpkd is not well understood, but it is thought to be related to an abnormal immune response. this abstract highlights the clinical and pathological features of mpo-anca gn in adpkd, as well as the diagnostic and therapeutic challenges associated with this condition. early recognition and prompt treatment of mpo-anca gn are critical for preserving renal function and improving patient outcomes.", "pol_abstract": "\n\nbackground:\n\nautosomal dominant polycystic kidney disease (adpkd) is an inherited condition characterized by the formation of cysts in the kidneys and other organs. typically, urinary protein excretion is less than 1 g/day, and adpkd is not commonly associated with nephrotic syndrome or rapidly progressive glomerulonephritis (rpgn). to date, there have been no reported cases of myeloperoxidase (mpo)-antineutrophil cytoplasmic antibody (anca)-associated crescentic glomerulonephritis (crgn) in patients with adpkd.\n\ncase presentations:\n\nin this report, we present two cases of mpo-anca positive adpkd in japanese women. the first patient, a 60-year-old woman (case 1), and the second patient, a 54-year-old woman (case 2), both presented with rpgn characterized by severe proteinuria and microscopic hematuria.", "mix_abstract": "autosomal dominant polycystic kidney disease (adpkd) is an inherited condition where cysts develop in multiple organs, including the kidneys.  urinary protein excretion is usually less than 1 g/day , and adpkd is rarely associated with nephrotic syndrome or rapidly progressive glomerulonephritis ( rpgn )  so far, there have been no reported cases of myeloperoxidase (mpo)-antineutrophil cytoplasmic antibody (anca)-associated crescentic glomerulonephritis (crgn) in patients with adpkd. in this report, we present two cases of mpo-anca positive adpkd in two japanese women: a 60-year-old (case 1) and a 54-year-old (case 2). both cases exhibited rapidly progressive glomerulonephritis (rpgn) with severe proteinuria and microscopic hematuria."}
{"title": "the combination of methylsulfonylmethane and tamoxifen inhibits the jak2/stat5b pathway and synergistically inhibits tumor growth and metastasis in er-positive breast_cancer xenografts", "abstract": "background combination therapy , which reduces the dosage intensity of the individual drugs while increasing their efficacy , is not a novel approach for the treatment of cancer . methylsulfonylmethane ( msm ) is an organic sulfur compound shown to act against tumor cells . tamoxifen is a commercially available therapeutic agent for breast malignancies . methods in the current study , we analyzed the combinatorial effect of msm and tamoxifen on the suppression of er-positive breast_cancer xenograft growth and metastasis . additionally , we also validated the molecular targets by which the drug combination regulated tumor growth and metastasis .", "gen_abstract": "\n\nbreast cancer is a complex disease that requires a multifaceted approach for effective treatment. one potential strategy involves the use of natural compounds, such as methylsulfonylmethane (msm), in combination with traditional chemotherapeutic agents like tamoxifen. in this study, the effects of the combination of msm and tamoxifen were evaluated in an er-positive breast cancer xenograft model. the results demonstrate that the combination of msm and tamoxifen inhibits the jak2/stat5b signaling pathway, which is known to play a critical role in breast cancer progression. moreover, the combination treatment also leads to a significant reduction in tumor growth and metastasis in the xenograft model, suggesting that this approach may have potential therapeutic value for the treatment of er-positive breast cancer. these findings provide insights into the potential benefits of combining natural compounds with traditional chemotherapy to enhance treatment outcomes for breast cancer patients.", "pol_abstract": "\n\nthe use of combination therapy to improve the effectiveness of cancer treatment by reducing individual drug dosage intensity is a well-established approach. methylsulfonylmethane (msm), an organic sulfur compound, has been demonstrated to have anti-tumor properties. tamoxifen, a commercially available drug, is used to treat breast cancer. the aim of this study was to investigate the combined effect of msm and tamoxifen in inhibiting the growth and spread of er-positive breast cancer cells in mice, as well as to determine the molecular targets through which this drug combination regulates tumor growth and metastasis.", "mix_abstract": "the use of combination therapy in cancer treatment, where the effectiveness of individual drugs is increased while reducing their dosage intensity, is not a new approach. methylsulfonylmethane (msm) has demonstrated the ability to combat tumor cells, and tamoxifen is an established therapeutic agent for breast malignancies. in this study, we examined the combined effect of msm and tamoxifen on inhibiting the growth and spread of er-positive breast cancer xenografts.  additionally , we also validated the molecular targets by which the drug combination regulated tumor growth and metastasis"}
{"title": "gonadotropin-releasing_hormone antagonists versus standard androgen suppression therapy for advanced_prostate_cancer a systematic review with meta-analysis", "abstract": "objectives to evaluate efficacy and safety of gonadotropin-releasing_hormone ( gnrh ) antagonists compared to standard androgen suppression therapy for advanced_prostate_cancer . setting the international review team included methodologists of the german cochrane centre and clinical experts . participants we searched central , medline , web of science , embase , trial registries and conference books for randomised controlled trials ( rct ) for effectiveness data analysis , and randomised or non-randomised controlled studies ( non-rct ) for safety data analysis ( march 2015 ) . two authors independently screened identified articles , extracted data , evaluated risk of bias and rated quality of evidence according to grade .", "gen_abstract": "\n\nthis systematic review with meta-analysis aims to compare the effectiveness and safety of gonadotropin-releasing hormone (gnrh) antagonists with standard androgen suppression therapy for the treatment of advanced prostate cancer. the study synthesizes available evidence from randomized controlled trials and evaluates the impact of these treatments on overall survival, disease progression, quality of life, and adverse events. the findings of this review will provide valuable insights into the optimal management of advanced prostate cancer and inform clinical practice guidelines.", "pol_abstract": "the aim of this study was to assess the effectiveness and safety of gnrh antagonists in comparison to standard androgen suppression therapy for patients with advanced prostate cancer. the review team comprised of clinical experts and methodologists from the german cochrane centre. the study analyzed randomized controlled trials sourced from central, medline, web of science, embase, trial registries, and conference books for effectiveness data, and both randomized and non-randomized controlled studies for safety data up to march 2015. two independent authors screened articles, collected data, evaluated bias risk, and assessed the quality of evidence using grade.", "mix_abstract": "the aim of this study was to assess the effectiveness and safety of gonadotropin-releasing hormone (gnrh) antagonists in treating advanced prostate cancer, and to compare their efficacy with standard androgen suppression therapy. the research team consisted of clinical experts and methodologists from the german cochrane centre. to gather effectiveness data, the team searched for randomized controlled trials (rcts) in central, medline, web of science, and embase, as well as trial registries and conference books. for safety data analysis, both randomized and non-randomized controlled studies (non-rcts) were included, and the search was conducted in march 2015.  two authors independently screened identified articles , extracted data , evaluated risk of bias and rated quality of evidence according to grade"}
{"title": "role of toll-like_receptor_4 on the immune escape of human oral_squamous_cell_carcinoma and resistance of cisplatin-induced apoptosis", "abstract": "background toll-like_receptor_4 ( tlr4 ) is expressed on immune cells as a sensor that recognizes lipopolysaccharide ( lps ) , a microbial conserved component . it has recently been determined that the expression of tlr4 is also found in various types of tumor cells . cisplatin is a widely used chemotherapeutic agent for oral_squamous_cell_carcinoma ( oscc ) treatment . however , the mechanisms responsible for cisplatin resistance are not well understood . results the present study was designed to elucidate the role of tlr4 expression in human oscc regarding immune escape and apoptotic resistance to cisplatin . tlr4 and the myeloid differentiation primary response gene 88 ( myd88 ) were highly expressed in oscc cell lines .", "gen_abstract": "\n\noral squamous cell carcinoma (oscc) is a common type of head and neck cancer, and the toll-like receptor 4 (tlr4) has been found to play a critical role in oscc immune escape and resistance to cisplatin-induced apoptosis. this abstract aims to summarize the current understanding of the relationship between tlr4 and oscc, as well as the implications of this relationship in clinical practice. tlr4 is known to promote oscc progression by activating various signaling pathways that contribute to tumor cell proliferation, migration, invasion, and resistance to apoptosis. moreover, tlr4-mediated immune escape can result in tumor cells evading recognition and elimination by the immune system. therefore, targeting tlr4 may be a promising approach for overcoming oscc resistance to conventional therapies and improving patient outcomes. this abstract will also highlight some of the challenges associated with tlr4 targeting, including potential side effects and the need for further preclinical and clinical research. overall, this abstract underscores the importance of understanding the role of tlr4 in oscc and its potential as a therapeutic target in cancer treatment.", "pol_abstract": "background:\ntoll-like receptor 4 (tlr4) serves as a sensor for lipopolysaccharide (lps), a conserved microbial component, and is expressed on immune cells. recent research has discovered tlr4 expression in various types of tumor cells. cisplatin is commonly used as a chemotherapeutic agent for treating oral squamous cell carcinoma (oscc); however, the mechanisms behind cisplatin resistance remain unclear.\n\nresults:\nthe current study aimed to investigate the impact of tlr4 expression on immune evasion and apoptotic resistance to cisplatin in human oscc. oscc cell lines exhibited high expression levels of tlr4 and the myeloid differentiation primary response gene 88 (myd88).", "mix_abstract": "tlr4, a receptor found on immune cells, is responsible for detecting lipopolysaccharide (lps), a commonly found component of microbes. interestingly, tlr4 has also been identified in different types of tumor cells. for the treatment of oral squamous cell carcinoma (oscc), the widely used chemotherapeutic drug is cisplatin.  however , the mechanisms responsible for cisplatin resistance are not well understood  \n\nin this study, we aimed to investigate the involvement of tlr4 expression in human oscc in terms of its impact on immune evasion and resistance to cisplatin-induced apoptosis. our findings revealed that oscc cell lines exhibited high levels of expression of tlr4 and myd88, which are crucial factors in these processes."}
{"title": "peripheral_neuropathy caused by paclitaxel and docetaxel : an evaluation and comparison of symptoms", "abstract": "the purpose of this study was to explore the prevalence , severity , distress , and timing of neuropathic symptoms in cancer patients receiving taxanes and to explore neuropathy-related interference with activities . in this descriptive , cross-sectional study , 68 adult outpatients receiving paclitaxel ( n = 36 ) and docetaxel ( n = 32 ) completed the chemotherapy induced peripheral_neuropathy assessment tool and a demographic questionnaire . muscle or joint aches were the most prevalent symptom . muscle or joint aches were also the most severe and distressing symptom in persons receiving paclitaxel . participants receiving paclitaxel reported that neuropathic symptoms interfered with a mean of 7.3 ( standard deviation [ sd ] = 4.1 ) of 14", "gen_abstract": "\n\nperipheral neuropathy is a common side effect of chemotherapy, particularly with the use of drugs like paclitaxel and docetaxel. this study evaluates and compares the symptoms of peripheral neuropathy caused by these two drugs. a systematic review of relevant literature was conducted, and data from various studies were analyzed to identify the common symptoms of peripheral neuropathy induced by paclitaxel and docetaxel. the study found that both drugs can cause similar symptoms of peripheral neuropathy, such as numbness, tingling, and pain in the hands and feet. however, some differences were also observed, such as a higher incidence of joint pain with paclitaxel and a greater risk of developing severe neuropathy with docetaxel. these findings can help healthcare providers in making informed decisions regarding the use of these drugs and the management of chemotherapy-induced peripheral neuropathy.", "pol_abstract": "the aim of this research was to investigate the occurrence, severity, distress, and timing of neuropathic symptoms in cancer patients treated with taxanes and their impact on daily activities. the study was descriptive and cross-sectional, involving 68 adult outpatients who received either paclitaxel (n=36) or docetaxel (n=32). participants completed the chemotherapy induced peripheral neuropathy assessment tool and a demographic questionnaire. results showed that muscle or joint aches were the most common, severe, and distressing symptom, particularly in those who received paclitaxel. moreover, the neuropathic symptoms affected an average of 7.3 (sd=4.1) out of 14 activities reported by participants who received paclitaxel.", "mix_abstract": "the aim of this study was to investigate the occurrence, intensity, level of distress, and timing of neuropathic symptoms in cancer patients undergoing treatment with taxanes, as well as to evaluate the extent to which neuropathy hinders daily activities. the study was designed as a descriptive cross-sectional analysis, involving 68 adult outpatients receiving either paclitaxel (n=36) or docetaxel (n=32). participants completed the chemotherapy induced peripheral neuropathy assessment tool, along with a demographic questionnaire. results revealed that muscle or joint aches were the most commonly reported symptom.  muscle or joint aches were also the most severe and distressing symptom in persons receiving paclitaxel  on average, participants who received paclitaxel reported that neuropathic symptoms caused a disruption of 7.3 (with a standard deviation [sd] of 4). 1 ) of 14"}
{"title": "analysis of disseminated tumor cells before and after platinum based chemotherapy in primary ovarian_cancer . do stem cell like cells predict prognosis ?", "abstract": "background we recently reported that the presence of disseminated tumor cells ( dtcs ) in the bone marrow ( bm ) of primary ovarian_cancer patients ( poc pts ) correlated with reduced progression free survival ( pfs ) and overall survival ( os ) . here we analyzed whether the negative prognostic influence was related to dtc persistence after platinum based chemotherapy and/or due to dtcs associated with stem cell character . results dtcs were detected in 33/79 pts ( 42 % ) before and in 32/79 pts ( 41 % ) at . persistent dtcs were found in 13 pts , 20 pts were only positive bt , 19 pts at and 27 pts had no dtcs .", "gen_abstract": "\n\nthis study aims to investigate the effect of platinum-based chemotherapy on disseminated tumor cells (dtcs) in patients with primary ovarian cancer. the analysis focuses on the identification of stem cell-like cells and their potential predictive value for prognosis. the study involves the analysis of dtcs in pre- and post-treatment samples from patients receiving platinum-based chemotherapy. the findings from this study may provide insights into the mechanisms of chemotherapy resistance and the potential use of stem cell-like cells as prognostic markers in ovarian cancer.", "pol_abstract": "\n\nbackground: in our previous report, we found that the presence of disseminated tumor cells (dtcs) in the bone marrow (bm) of primary ovarian cancer patients (poc pts) was associated with decreased progression-free survival (pfs) and overall survival (os). in this study, we investigated whether the negative prognostic effect was due to the persistence of dtcs after platinum-based chemotherapy and/or the presence of dtcs with stem cell characteristics.\n\nresults: dtcs were identified in 33 out of 79 patients (42%) before treatment and in 32 out of 79 patients (41%) after treatment. among the patients, 13 had persistent dtcs, 20 were only positive before treatment, 19 were positive after treatment, and 27 had no dtcs.", "mix_abstract": "previously, we shared findings indicating that the detection of disseminated tumor cells (dtcs) in the bone marrow (bm) of primary ovarian cancer patients (poc pts) was associated with decreased progression-free survival (pfs) and overall survival (os). in this study, we investigated whether the adverse prognostic impact was due to dtc persistence following platinum-based chemotherapy or the presence of dtcs exhibiting stem cell characteristics.  results dtcs were detected in 33/79 pts ( 42 % ) before and in 32/79 pts ( 41 % ) at  out of the total number of patients studied, 13 had persistent dtcs, 20 had only positive bt, 19 had at, and 27 patients did not have any dtcs detected."}
{"title": "evaluation and comparison of the indices of systemic oxidative stress among black-africans with age-related cataracts or primary glaucoma", "abstract": "purpose : oxidative stress has been implicated in the pathophysiology of glaucoma , cataract , and many degenerative diseases . the purpose of this study is to evaluate the systemic oxidative stress in black-african patients diagnosed with primary_glaucoma or age-related_cataract ( arc ) and compare these indices to normal control patients and between the two conditions . methods : this was a descriptive cross-sectional study of consecutive recruited subjects attending a tertiary care facility . one hundred adults were enrolled and sub-grouped into : normal controls ( n = 20 ) , patients with primary_glaucoma ( n = 40 ) , and patients with cataract ( n = 40 ) .", "gen_abstract": "\n\nthis study aimed to evaluate and compare the indices of systemic oxidative stress among black-africans diagnosed with age-related cataracts or primary glaucoma. oxidative stress is a major contributor to the pathogenesis of age-related cataracts and primary glaucoma, and it has been suggested that the indices of oxidative stress may differ between these two conditions. the study analyzed the levels of various biomarkers of oxidative stress, including lipid peroxidation products, antioxidant enzymes, and total antioxidant capacity, in the serum of patients with age-related cataracts or primary glaucoma. the results of the study may help to better understand the underlying mechanisms of these two conditions and may aid in the development of novel therapeutic strategies for the treatment of age-related cataracts and primary glaucoma.", "pol_abstract": "the aim of this study is to assess systemic oxidative stress in black-african patients with primary_glaucoma or age-related_cataract (arc), as well as to compare these measures to those of normal control patients and between the two diseases. oxidative stress has been associated with the pathophysiology of glaucoma, cataract, and various degenerative illnesses. this was a descriptive cross-sectional study of consecutive subjects recruited from a tertiary care facility, including 100 adults who were sub-grouped into normal controls (n=20), primary_glaucoma patients (n=40), and cataract patients (n=40). the methods used in this study were described in detail.", "mix_abstract": "purpose : oxidative stress has been implicated in the pathophysiology of glaucoma , cataract , and many degenerative diseases  the aim of this research is to assess the extent of systemic oxidative stress in black-african individuals who have been diagnosed with primary glaucoma or age-related cataract (arc). the study seeks to compare these measures with those of normal control patients, as well as to determine any differences between the two medical conditions. the methodology involved a descriptive cross-sectional analysis of consecutive participants who visited a tertiary care center. the study included 100 adult participants who were categorized into three sub-groups: normal controls (n=20), patients with primary glaucoma (n=40), and patients with cataract (n=40)."}
{"title": "farnesoid_x receptor activation attenuates intestinal_ischemia_reperfusion_injury in rats", "abstract": "introduction the farnesoid x receptor ( fxr ) is abundantly expressed in the ileum , where it exerts an enteroprotective role as a key regulator of intestinal innate immunity and homeostasis , as shown in pre-clinical models of inflammatory bowel disease . since intestinal ischemia_reperfusion_injury ( iri ) is characterized by hyperpermeability , bacterial translocation and inflammation , we aimed to investigate , for the first time , if the fxr-agonist obeticholic acid ( oca ) could attenuate intestinal ischemia_reperfusion_injury . material and methods in a validated rat model of intestinal iri ( laparotomy + temporary mesenteric artery clamping ) , 3 conditions were tested ( n = 16/group ) : laparotomy only ( sham group ) ; ischemia 60min+ reperfusion 60min + vehicle pretreatment ( ir group ) ; ischemia 60min + reperfusion 60min + oca pretreatment ( ir+oca group", "gen_abstract": "\n\nthe farnesoid x receptor (fxr) is a nuclear receptor that plays a crucial role in regulating bile acid homeostasis and glucose metabolism. recent studies have suggested that fxr activation may also have a protective effect against intestinal ischemia-reperfusion (i/r) injury, a common clinical problem that can lead to significant morbidity and mortality. in this study, rats were subjected to intestinal i/r injury and then treated with an fxr agonist to investigate the potential protective effects. results showed that fxr activation attenuated intestinal i/r injury, as evidenced by reduced oxidative stress, inflammation, and apoptosis. these findings suggest that fxr activation may be a promising therapeutic strategy for preventing or treating intestinal i/r injury in humans.", "pol_abstract": "\n\nbackground: the farnesoid x receptor (fxr) is highly expressed in the ileum and plays a crucial role in maintaining intestinal innate immunity and homeostasis, as evidenced by pre-clinical models of inflammatory bowel disease. given that intestinal ischemia-reperfusion injury (iri) is characterized by inflammation, bacterial translocation, and hyperpermeability, we aimed to investigate whether the fxr agonist, obeticholic acid (oca), could attenuate iri in this study.\n\nmethods: using a validated rat model of intestinal iri (laparotomy + temporary mesenteric artery clamping), we tested three conditions (n = 16/group): laparotomy only (sham group), ischemia 60min + reperfusion 60min + vehicle pretreatment (ir group), and ischemia 60min + reperfusion 60min + oca pretreatment (ir+oca group). this study is the first to investigate the potential effects of oca on intestinal iri.\n\noverall, the meaning and content of the abstract remain the same, but the language and structure have been slightly modified to enhance readability and clarity.", "mix_abstract": "the fxr, or farnesoid x receptor, is primarily found in the ileum and plays a crucial role in maintaining intestinal innate immunity and homeostasis. previous studies in pre-clinical models of inflammatory bowel disease have shown that fxr is an enteroprotective regulator. given that intestinal ischemia-reperfusion injury (iri) is associated with increased permeability, bacterial translocation, and inflammation, we sought to investigate whether obeticholic acid (oca), an fxr agonist, could mitigate iri in the intestine. this study represents the first investigation into the potential therapeutic effects of oca in attenuating intestinal iri.  material and methods in a validated rat model of intestinal iri ( laparotomy + temporary mesenteric artery clamping ) , 3 conditions were tested ( n = 16/group ) : laparotomy only ( sham group ) ; ischemia 60min+ reperfusion 60min + vehicle pretreatment ( ir group ) ; ischemia 60min + reperfusion 60min + oca pretreatment ( ir+oca group"}
{"title": "attenuation of early phase inflammation by cannabidiol prevents pain and nerve_damage in rat osteoarthritis", "abstract": "the nonpsychoactive cannabis-derivative cannabidiol ( cbd ) reduced nociceptor activity and pain in end-stage osteoarthritis . prophylactic treatment with cbd prevented joint neuropathy and chronic neuropathic pain . abstract osteoarthritis ( oa ) is a multifactorial joint disease , which includes joint degeneration , intermittent inflammation , and peripheral neuropathy . cannabidiol ( cbd ) is a noneuphoria producing constituent of cannabis that has the potential to relieve pain . the aim of this study was to determine whether cbd is anti-nociceptive in oa , and whether inhibition of inflammation by cbd could prevent the development of oa pain and joint neuropathy .", "gen_abstract": "\n\nthe following study investigates the potential benefits of cannabidiol (cbd) in attenuating early phase inflammation in rat osteoarthritis. the study explores the effects of cbd on pain and nerve damage associated with the condition. results suggest that cbd treatment can significantly reduce inflammation and prevent pain and nerve damage in rats with osteoarthritis. these findings highlight the potential for cbd as a therapeutic option in the management of early phase inflammation and associated symptoms in osteoarthritis.", "pol_abstract": "the aim of this study was to investigate the potential of cannabidiol (cbd), a non-psychotropic derivative of cannabis, to alleviate pain and reduce nociceptor activity in end-stage osteoarthritis (oa). the study found that cbd reduced pain and nociceptor activity in oa and that prophylactic treatment with cbd prevented joint neuropathy and chronic neuropathic pain. the study suggests that cbd could be a promising therapeutic option for oa patients and could potentially prevent the development of oa pain and joint neuropathy by inhibiting inflammation.", "mix_abstract": "cbd, a cannabis-derived compound that does not have psychoactive effects, was found to decrease nociceptor activity and alleviate pain in individuals with end-stage osteoarthritis. additionally, using cbd as a preventative treatment was effective in avoiding joint neuropathy and chronic neuropathic pain.  abstract osteoarthritis ( oa ) is a multifactorial joint disease , which includes joint degeneration , intermittent inflammation , and peripheral neuropathy  the objective of this research was to investigate whether cannabidiol (cbd), a component of cannabis that does not produce euphoria, has the ability to alleviate pain. specifically, the study aimed to determine if cbd possesses anti-nociceptive properties in individuals with oa and whether cbd's capacity to inhibit inflammation could prevent the emergence of pain and nerve damage in the joints associated with oa."}
{"title": "upregulation of wnt5a promotes epithelial-to-mesenchymal_transition and metastasis of pancreatic_cancer cells", "abstract": "background pancreatic_cancer is one of the most lethal cancers worldwide . the aim of this study was to determine the expression pattern , clinical significance , and biological functions of wnt5a in pancreatic_cancer . methods immunohistochemistry was performed to examine wnt5a expression in 134 surgically resected pancreatic adenocarcinoma and adjacent normal pancreatic tissues . associations of wnt5a expression with clinicopathological factors and cancer-specific survival were analyzed . the effects of wnt5a overexpression or silencing on the invasiveness and epithelial-to-mesenchymal_transition ( emt ) of pancreatic_cancer cells were studied . silencing of \u03b2-catenin by small interfering rna was done to determine its role in the wnt5a-mediated tumor phenotype .", "gen_abstract": "\n\npancreatic cancer is a highly aggressive and lethal malignancy with a poor prognosis. epithelial-to-mesenchymal transition (emt) is a critical process for cancer metastasis, including pancreatic cancer. wnt5a, a member of the wnt family, is known to play a role in emt in various cancers. this study aims to investigate the potential role of wnt5a in promoting emt and metastasis in pancreatic cancer cells. results showed that upregulation of wnt5a enhanced emt and promoted metastasis in pancreatic cancer cells, while inhibition of wnt5a expression reversed this effect. moreover, the study identified key signaling pathways, including the pi3k/akt and mapk/erk pathways, mediating the effect of wnt5a on emt and metastasis in pancreatic cancer cells. these findings suggest that targeting wnt5a may be a promising strategy for inhibiting pancreatic cancer metastasis and improving patient outcomes.", "pol_abstract": "\n\nthe objective of this study was to investigate the expression pattern, clinical significance, and biological functions of wnt5a in pancreatic cancer, which is known to be highly lethal. a total of 134 surgically resected pancreatic adenocarcinoma and adjacent normal pancreatic tissues were analyzed using immunohistochemistry to assess wnt5a expression. the study examined the association between wnt5a expression and clinicopathological factors and cancer-specific survival. the study also investigated the impact of wnt5a overexpression or silencing on the invasiveness and epithelial-to-mesenchymal transition of pancreatic cancer cells. finally, the role of \u03b2-catenin in the wnt5a-mediated tumor phenotype was investigated by silencing it using small interfering rna.", "mix_abstract": "background pancreatic_cancer is one of the most lethal cancers worldwide  the purpose of this investigation was to analyze the expression profile, clinical relevance, and biological activities of wnt5a in the context of pancreatic cancer. a total of 134 surgically removed pancreatic adenocarcinoma and corresponding normal pancreatic tissues were analyzed via immunohistochemistry to determine the expression levels of wnt5a. the relationship between wnt5a expression and clinicopathological factors as well as cancer-specific survival was evaluated. the study also explored the effects of wnt5a overexpression or downregulation on the invasive and epithelial-to-mesenchymal transition (emt) properties of pancreatic cancer cells. furthermore, the study investigated the function of \u03b2-catenin in the wnt5a-mediated tumor phenotype by using small interfering rna to silence its expression."}
{"title": "paclitaxel- and/or cisplatin-induced ocular_neurotoxicity : a case report and literature review", "abstract": "paclitaxel ( ptx ) and/or cisplatin ( cddp ) , as important cytotoxic anti-cancer agents , are widely used to treat various solid tumors . both may cause moderate or severe neurotoxicity , but ocular_neurotoxicity is also occasionally reported . a patient diagnosed with nasopharyngeal cancer suffering acute ocular_neurotoxicity 10 days after paclitaxel and cddp administration at the recommended dose is described in the present case report , and ptx- and/or cddp-induced ocular_neurotoxicity are summarized according to previous reports . possible mechanisms and the potential diagnostic , therapeutic and predictive strategies of ptx- and/or cddp-induced ocular_neurotoxicity are reviewed , to help the oncologist to take the infrequent toxicity of cytotoxic drugs into account and improve patient safety during anti-cancer", "gen_abstract": "\n\nthis case report and literature review aim to describe and analyze the ocular neurotoxicity induced by the chemotherapeutic agents, paclitaxel and/or cisplatin. the case study focuses on a patient who developed ocular toxicity after receiving these drugs, and the literature review explores previous studies and reports on the topic. the review highlights the risk factors, pathophysiology, clinical manifestations, and management of this adverse effect, providing a comprehensive understanding of the ocular neurotoxicity associated with paclitaxel and/or cisplatin chemotherapy. ultimately, the findings suggest that clinicians should be aware of the potential ocular complications of these drugs and should carefully monitor patients receiving them to prevent long-term damage.", "pol_abstract": "paclitaxel (ptx) and/or cisplatin (cddp) are commonly used to treat solid tumors as effective cytotoxic anti-cancer agents, but they can also cause neurotoxicity, including ocular issues. this case report describes a patient with nasopharyngeal cancer who experienced acute ocular neurotoxicity 10 days after receiving the recommended dose of ptx and cddp. previous reports of ptx- and/or cddp-induced ocular neurotoxicity are summarized, and potential diagnostic, therapeutic, and predictive strategies are reviewed. these findings aim to raise awareness of the infrequent toxicity of cytotoxic drugs and improve patient safety during anti-cancer treatment.", "mix_abstract": "paclitaxel (ptx) and/or cisplatin (cddp) are commonly utilized as crucial anti-cancer agents with cytotoxic properties to treat a range of solid tumors. despite their effectiveness, they may cause varying degrees of neurotoxicity, including ocular complications. this case report describes a patient with nasopharyngeal cancer who experienced acute ocular neurotoxicity ten days after receiving the recommended dosage of ptx and cddp. additionally, this report presents a summary of previously reported cases of ocular neurotoxicity induced by ptx and/or cddp.  possible mechanisms and the potential diagnostic , therapeutic and predictive strategies of ptx- and/or cddp-induced ocular_neurotoxicity are reviewed , to help the oncologist to take the infrequent toxicity of cytotoxic drugs into account and improve patient safety during anti-cancer"}
{"title": "simultaneous quantification of 12 different nucleotides and nucleosides released from renal epithelium and in human urine samples using ion-pair reversed-phase hplc", "abstract": "nucleotides and nucleosides are not only involved in cellular metabolism but also act extracellularly via p1 and p2 receptors , to elicit a wide variety of physiological and pathophysiological responses through paracrine and autocrine signalling pathways . for the first time , we have used an ion-pair reversed-phase high-performance liquid chromatography ultraviolet ( uv ) -coupled method to rapidly and simultaneously quantify 12 different nucleotides and nucleosides ( adenosine triphosphate , adenosine diphosphate , adenosine monophosphate , adenosine , uridine triphosphate , uridine diphosphate , uridine monophosphate , uridine , guanosine triphosphate , guanosine diphosphate , guanosine monophosphate , guanosine ) : ( 1 ) released from a mouse renal cell line ( m1 cortical collecting duct ) and ( 2 ) in human biological samples ( i.e. , urine", "gen_abstract": "\n\nthe present study focuses on the simultaneous quantification of 12 nucleotides and nucleosides that are released from renal epithelium in human urine samples using ion-pair reversed-phase hplc. the development of a reliable and sensitive method for quantification of these compounds is crucial for the understanding of renal physiology and the pathogenesis of renal diseases. the method is based on the separation of the target compounds using ion-pair reversed-phase hplc and their detection by uv-vis spectroscopy. the method was validated according to the international conference on harmonisation (ich) guidelines for accuracy, precision, specificity, and robustness. the results showed that the method is accurate, precise, and sensitive enough to quantitate all 12 target compounds in human urine samples, making it a valuable tool for further investigations into the role of nucleotides and nucleosides in renal physiology and diseases.", "pol_abstract": "not only do nucleotides and nucleosides participate in cellular metabolism, but they also activate p1 and p2 receptors extracellularly, thereby inducing a diverse range of physiological and pathophysiological responses via paracrine and autocrine signaling pathways. our study utilized an ion-pair reversed-phase high-performance liquid chromatography ultraviolet (uv)-coupled method to quantitatively measure 12 different nucleotides and nucleosides, including adenosine triphosphate, adenosine diphosphate, adenosine monophosphate, adenosine, uridine triphosphate, uridine diphosphate, uridine monophosphate, uridine, guanosine triphosphate, guanosine diphosphate, guanosine monophosphate, and guanosine. this analysis was performed for the first time on both a mouse renal cell line (m1 cortical collecting duct) and human biological samples (urine).", "mix_abstract": "nucleotides and nucleosides play a role not only in cellular metabolism but also in extracellular functions through p1 and p2 receptors, which activate paracrine and autocrine signaling pathways to induce a range of physiological and pathophysiological responses. in this study, we utilized an ion-pair reversed-phase high-performance liquid chromatography coupled with ultraviolet detection to simultaneously and quickly measure 12 nucleotides and nucleosides, including adenosine triphosphate, adenosine diphosphate, adenosine monophosphate, adenosine, uridine triphosphate, uridine diphosphate, uridine monophosphate, uridine, guanosine triphosphate, guanosine diphosphate, guanosine monophosphate, and guanosine. we analyzed both mouse renal cell line (m1 cortical collecting duct) and human biological samples.  , urine"}
{"title": "ykl-40/c-met expression in rectal_cancer biopsies predicts tumor regression following neoadjuvant chemoradiotherapy : a multi-institutional study", "abstract": "background neoadjuvant chemo-radiotherapy ( crt ) followed by surgical resection is the standard treatment for locally advanced rectal_cancer , although complete tumor pathological regression is achieved in only up to 30 % of cases . a clinicopathological and molecular predictive stratification of patients with advanced rectal_cancer is still lacking . here , c-met and ykl-40 have been studied as putative predictors of crt response in rectal_cancer , due to their reported involvement in chemoradioresistance in various solid tumors . material and methods a multicentric study was designed to assess the role of c-met and ykl-40 expression in predicting chemoradioresistance and to correlate clinical and pathological features with crt response .", "gen_abstract": "this multi-institutional study aimed to investigate the predictive value of ykl-40 and c-met expression in rectal cancer biopsies for tumor regression after neoadjuvant chemoradiotherapy. the study involved analyzing tissue samples from a large cohort of patients with rectal cancer who received neoadjuvant treatment. the findings demonstrated that higher levels of ykl-40 and c-met expression in biopsies were associated with a higher probability of tumor regression after neoadjuvant chemoradiotherapy. the results suggest that ykl-40 and c-met expression may serve as potential biomarkers to predict treatment response in patients with rectal cancer and could aid in developing personalized treatment plans for these patients.", "pol_abstract": "\n\nbackground:\nthe standard treatment for locally advanced rectal cancer is neoadjuvant chemo-radiotherapy (crt) followed by surgical resection, but complete tumor pathological regression is achieved in only up to 30% of cases. however, there is currently no clinicopathological and molecular predictive stratification of patients with advanced rectal cancer.\n\nobjective:\nto investigate c-met and ykl-40 as potential predictors of crt response in rectal cancer, as they have been reported to be involved in chemoradioresistance in various solid tumors.\n\nmethods:\na multicentric study was conducted to evaluate the role of c-met and ykl-40 expression in predicting chemoradioresistance and to establish correlations between clinical and pathological characteristics and crt response.", "mix_abstract": "despite being the standard treatment for locally advanced rectal cancer, neoadjuvant chemo-radiotherapy (crt) followed by surgical resection only results in complete tumor pathological regression in up to 30% of cases. however, there is currently no clinicopathological or molecular predictive stratification available for patients with advanced rectal cancer.  here , c-met and ykl-40 have been studied as putative predictors of crt response in rectal_cancer , due to their reported involvement in chemoradioresistance in various solid tumors  title: assessment of the role of c-met and ykl-40 expression in predicting chemoradioresistance: a multicenter study\n\nintroduction: the purpose of this study was to investigate the correlation between c-met and ykl-40 expression and chemoradioresistance, as well as to evaluate the relationship between clinical and pathological features and response to chemoradiotherapy (crt).\n\nmaterials and methods: this multicenter study was designed to assess the role of c-met and ykl-40 expression in predicting chemoradioresistance and to correlate clinical and pathological features with crt response. the study included patients with advanced stage non-small cell lung cancer who underwent crt. tumor tissue was obtained prior to treatment, and c-met and ykl-40 expression levels were analyzed by immunohistochemistry. the clinical and pathological features of the patients were also collected and analyzed. the response to crt was evaluated using the response evaluation criteria in solid tumors (recist).\n\nresults: the study included a total of xx patients. the expression of c-met and ykl-40 was detected in xx% and xx% of the tumors, respectively. the results showed that high expression levels of c-met and ykl-40 were significantly associated with poor response to crt (p < 0.05). furthermore, the presence of lymph node metastasis, a high tumor stage, and a low performance status were also significantly associated with poor response to crt (p < 0.05).\n\nconclusion: the findings of this study suggest that c-met and ykl-40 expression levels may serve as biomarkers for predicting chemoradioresistance in patients with advanced stage non-small cell lung cancer. additionally, clinical and pathological features such as lymph node metastasis, tumor stage, and performance status may also provide valuable information for predicting crt response."}
{"title": "glucose metabolism effects of vitamin_d in prediabetes : the vitdmet randomized placebo-controlled supplementation study", "abstract": "epidemiological evidence suggests a role for vitamin d in type 2 diabetes prevention . we investigated the effects of vitamin d 3 supplementation on glucose metabolism and inflammation in subjects with prediabetes . a 5-month randomized , double-blind , placebo-controlled intervention with three arms ( placebo , 40 \u03bc g/d , or 80 \u03bc g/d vitamin d 3 ) was carried out among sixty-eight overweight ( bmi 25\u201335 ) and aging ( \u226560 years ) subjects from finland , with serum 25-hydroxyvitamin d 3 [ 25 ( oh ) d 3 ] < 75 nmol/l and either impaired fasting glucose or impaired glucose tolerance .", "gen_abstract": "the vitdmet randomized placebo-controlled supplementation study investigates the effects of vitamin d on glucose metabolism in individuals with prediabetes. this study aims to evaluate the efficacy of vitamin d supplementation in improving glucose metabolism in prediabetes, which could potentially prevent the development of type 2 diabetes. the study design includes a randomized, placebo-controlled trial, which allows for the comparison of vitamin d supplementation versus a placebo, and a rigorous evaluation of the outcomes. the findings of this study have the potential to inform clinical practice and offer new insights into the use of vitamin d supplementation for prediabetes management.", "pol_abstract": "according to epidemiological evidence, vitamin d may play a role in preventing type 2 diabetes. in this study, we examined the impact of vitamin d3 supplementation on glucose metabolism and inflammation in individuals with prediabetes. the study involved 68 overweight (bmi 25-35) and elderly (\u226560 years) participants from finland who had serum 25-hydroxyvitamin d3 [25(oh)d3] levels of less than 75 nmol/l and either impaired fasting glucose or impaired glucose tolerance. the study was a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled intervention that lasted for 5 months and had three arms (placebo, 40 \u03bcg/d, or 80 \u03bcg/d vitamin d3).", "mix_abstract": "the role of vitamin d in preventing type 2 diabetes has been suggested by epidemiological evidence. to further investigate this, we conducted a 5-month randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled intervention with three groups (placebo, 40 \u03bcg/d, or 80 \u03bcg/d vitamin d3) among 68 overweight (bmi 25-35) and elderly (\u226560 years) individuals from finland with serum 25-hydroxyvitamin d3 [25(oh)d3] levels < 75 nmol/l and either impaired fasting glucose or impaired glucose tolerance. our study aimed to determine the effects of vitamin d3 supplementation on glucose metabolism and inflammation in those with prediabetes."}
{"title": "prenatal metformin therapy attenuates hypertension of developmental origin in male adult offspring exposed to maternal high-fructose and post-weaning high-fat_diets", "abstract": "widespread consumption of a western diet , comprised of highly refined carbohydrates and fat , may play a role in the epidemic of hypertension . hypertension can take origin from early life . metformin is the preferred treatment for type 2 diabetes . we examined whether prenatal metformin therapy can prevent maternal high-fructose plus post-weaning high-fat_diets-induced hypertension of developmental origins via regulation of nutrient sensing signals , uric acid , oxidative stress , and the nitric oxide ( no ) pathway . gestating sprague\u2013dawley rats received regular chow ( nd ) or chow supplemented with 60 % fructose diet ( hfr ) throughout pregnancy and lactation .", "gen_abstract": "this study aimed to investigate the potential of prenatal metformin therapy in reducing hypertension of developmental origin in male adult offspring exposed to maternal high-fructose and post-weaning high-fat diets. pregnant rats were divided into four groups: control, high-fructose, high-fat, and high-fructose/high-fat diets. within each group, some rats received metformin therapy during pregnancy. after birth, the male offspring were weaned onto a standard diet and monitored until adulthood. the results showed that offspring exposed to the high-fructose and high-fat diets had higher blood pressure levels compared to the control group. however, prenatal metformin therapy attenuated the hypertension of the offspring exposed to the high-fructose diet. these findings suggest that prenatal metformin therapy may have potential in reducing the risk of hypertension in offspring exposed to adverse maternal diets.", "pol_abstract": "\n\nthe epidemic of hypertension may be linked to the widespread consumption of a western diet that is high in refined carbohydrates and fat. hypertension can arise early in life and is typically treated with metformin for type 2 diabetes. we investigated whether prenatal metformin therapy could prevent hypertension caused by maternal consumption of high-fructose and high-fat diets after weaning. our study focused on the regulation of nutrient sensing signals, uric acid, oxidative stress, and the nitric oxide (no) pathway. to conduct this research, gestating sprague-dawley rats were given regular chow (nd) or chow supplemented with a 60% fructose diet (hfr) throughout pregnancy and lactation.", "mix_abstract": "the epidemic of hypertension may be linked to the widespread adoption of a western diet, which consists of highly processed carbohydrates and fats. hypertension can develop from an early age. when it comes to treating type 2 diabetes, metformin is the preferred medication.  we examined whether prenatal metformin therapy can prevent maternal high-fructose plus post-weaning high-fat_diets-induced hypertension of developmental origins via regulation of nutrient sensing signals , uric acid , oxidative stress , and the nitric oxide ( no ) pathway  during pregnancy and lactation, gestating sprague-dawley rats were fed either regular chow (nd) or chow supplemented with a 60% fructose diet (hfr)."}
{"title": "unexpected death of a child with complex febrile_seizures\u2014pathophysiology similar to sudden unexpected death in epilepsy ?", "abstract": "febrile_seizures are usually considered relatively benign . although some cases of sudden unexplained death in childhood have a history of febrile_seizures , no documented case of febrile_seizure-induced death has been reported . here , we describe a child with complex febrile_seizures who died suddenly and unexpectedly after a suspected seizure while in bed at night during the beginning phases of sleep . she was resuscitated and pronounced brain dead 2 days later at our regional medical center . autopsy revealed multiorgan effects of hypoperfusion and did not reveal an underlying ( precipitating ) disease , injury , or toxicological cause of death .", "gen_abstract": "\n\nthis study explores the unexpected death of a child with complex febrile seizures and its possible link to the pathophysiology of sudden unexpected death in epilepsy. the authors examine the medical history and autopsy results of the child, and identify similarities between the two conditions, such as abnormal cardiac and respiratory function. the findings suggest that further research is needed to better understand the underlying mechanisms of these conditions and develop effective prevention strategies.", "pol_abstract": "\n\nfebrile seizures are generally considered to be relatively harmless, although some cases of unexplained death in childhood have a history of febrile seizures. however, there has been no recorded instance of death caused by a febrile seizure. in this case report, we present the case of a child with complex febrile seizures who died suddenly and unexpectedly during the initial stages of sleep, after a suspected seizure while in bed at night. despite resuscitation attempts, the child was declared brain dead two days later at our regional medical center. the autopsy results revealed that there was no underlying cause of death, such as injury, disease, or toxicological factors, but rather the multi-organ effects of hypoperfusion.", "mix_abstract": "\"febrile seizures are typically regarded as relatively harmless.\"  although some cases of sudden unexplained death in childhood have a history of febrile_seizures , no documented case of febrile_seizure-induced death has been reported  here, we present the case of a child with complex febrile seizures who passed away suddenly and unexpectedly after a suspected seizure while sleeping during the initial phases of the night. although resuscitation efforts were made, she was pronounced brain dead at our regional medical center two days later. upon conducting an autopsy, multiorgan effects of hypoperfusion were discovered, and no underlying (precipitating) disease, injury, or toxicological cause of death was found."}
{"title": "ischemic_ecg_abnormalities are associated with an increased risk for death among subjects with copd , also among those without known heart_disease", "abstract": "abstract presentation an abstract , including parts of the results , has been presented at an oral session at the european respiratory society international conference , london , uk , september 2016 . background cardiovascular comorbidity contributes to increased mortality among subjects with copd . however , the prognostic value of ecg abnormalities in copd has rarely been studied in population-based surveys . aim to assess the impact of ischemic_ecg_abnormalities ( i-ecg ) on mortality among individuals with copd , compared to subjects with normal lung function ( nlf ) , in a population-based study . methods during 2002\u20132004 , all subjects with fev 1 /vc < 0.70 ( copd , n=993 ) were identified from population-based cohorts , together with age- and sex-matched referents without", "gen_abstract": "\n\nthis study aims to investigate the relationship between ischemic ecg abnormalities and the risk of death among individuals with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (copd). the research was conducted on a large sample of subjects, including those with and without known heart disease. the results indicate that ischemic ecg abnormalities are strongly associated with an increased risk of death among individuals with copd, even in the absence of known heart disease. these findings highlight the importance of regular ecg monitoring for individuals with copd, as it can help identify those at higher risk of adverse outcomes and facilitate earlier interventions to improve patient outcomes.", "pol_abstract": "this abstract reports the presentation of a study at the european respiratory society international conference in september 2016. the study aimed to evaluate the prognostic value of ecg abnormalities in individuals with copd and the impact of ischemic ecg abnormalities on mortality compared to individuals with normal lung function in a population-based survey. the study identified all subjects with copd and age- and sex-matched referents without copd from population-based cohorts during 2002-2004. the results suggest that cardiovascular comorbidity contributes to increased mortality among subjects with copd, and the presence of ischemic ecg abnormalities is associated with higher mortality risk in individuals with copd.", "mix_abstract": "at the september 2016 european respiratory society international conference held in london, uk, a verbal session featured a summary that incorporated some of the findings.  background cardiovascular comorbidity contributes to increased mortality among subjects with copd  the prognostic significance of ecg abnormalities in copd has seldom been investigated in surveys based on population. the objective of this study is to examine the influence of ischemic ecg abnormalities (i-ecg) on mortality in individuals with copd as opposed to those with normal lung function (nlf) in a population-based analysis. from 2002-2004, all participants with fev1/vc < 0 were selected from a population-based study. 70 ( copd , n=993 ) were identified from population-based cohorts , together with age- and sex-matched referents without"}
{"title": "clinical significance of occult hepatitis_b infection in progression of liver_disease and carcinogenesis", "abstract": "occult hepatitis_b infection ( obi ) is defined as long-lasting persistence of hepatitis_b virus ( hbv ) dna in the liver of patients with hepatitis_b surface antigen ( hbsag ) -negative status , with or without serological markers of previous exposure ( antibodies to hbsag and/or to hepatitis_b core antigen ) . over the past two decades , significant progress has been made in understanding obi and its clinical implications . obi as a cause of chronic liver_disease in patients with hbsag-negative status is becoming an important disease entity . in conditions of immunocompetence , obi is inoffensive in itself and detection of hbv dna in the liver does not always indicate active hepatitis .", "gen_abstract": "\n\nthis review aims to explore the clinical significance of occult hepatitis b infection (obi) in the progression of liver disease and its association with the development of liver cancer. obi is characterized by the presence of low levels of hepatitis b virus (hbv) dna in the liver tissue or serum, in the absence of detectable hepatitis b surface antigen (hbsag). while obi is generally considered to be a relatively benign condition, recent studies have suggested that it may play a significant role in the pathogenesis of liver disease, particularly in patients with other underlying liver conditions such as hepatitis c virus (hcv) infection, alcoholic liver disease, or non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (nafld). the potential for obi to promote the progression of liver disease and the development of liver cancer has important implications for the management and treatment of patients with liver disease. this review will summarize the current understanding of the clinical significance of obi in liver disease and carcinogenesis and discuss the implications for clinical practice.", "pol_abstract": "\n\noccult hepatitis b infection (obi) refers to the persistent presence of hepatitis b virus (hbv) dna in the liver of individuals who are negative for hepatitis b surface antigen (hbsag) and may or may not have antibodies to hbsag and/or hepatitis b core antigen. the understanding of obi and its clinical implications has significantly progressed over the past two decades, and it is now recognized as an important cause of chronic liver disease in individuals with hbsag-negative status. obi is generally benign in immunocompetent individuals, and the detection of hbv dna in the liver does not always indicate active hepatitis.", "mix_abstract": "occult hepatitis b infection (obi) is defined as the persistent presence of hepatitis b virus (hbv) dna in the liver of patients who test negative for hepatitis b surface antigen (hbsag), regardless of whether or not they show serological markers of previous exposure (such as antibodies to hbsag and/or to hepatitis b core antigen). over the last two decades, there has been significant progress in the understanding of obi and its clinical implications.  obi as a cause of chronic liver_disease in patients with hbsag-negative status is becoming an important disease entity  \n\nwhen the immune system is functioning properly, obi is not harmful on its own. furthermore, the presence of hbv dna in the liver does not necessarily indicate an active hepatitis."}
{"title": "maternal levels of endocrine_disruptors , polybrominated_diphenyl_ethers , in early_pregnancy are not associated with lower birth_weight in the canadian birth cohort geste", "abstract": "background polybrominated_diphenyl_ethers are known endocrine disrupting environmental contaminants used as flame retardants . their levels have increased in humans over the last ten years , raising concerns about their consequences on human health . some animal studies suggest that pbdes can affect fetal growth ; however , the results of human studies are contradictory . this study evaluates the association between the most common pbdes in maternal blood measured in early_pregnancy and birth_weight . methods bde-47 , bde-99 , bde-100 and bde-153 levels were measured in 349 women during their first prenatal care visit at the university hospital center of sherbrooke ( quebec , canada ) .", "gen_abstract": "\n\nthis study aimed to investigate the potential association between maternal levels of endocrine disruptors, specifically polybrominated diphenyl ethers (pbdes), in early pregnancy and birth weight in a canadian birth cohort called geste. the study found that there was no significant association between maternal levels of pbdes and lower birth weight in the cohort. these findings suggest that exposure to pbdes during early pregnancy may not have a significant impact on fetal growth and birth weight in this population. these results could inform public health policies and interventions aimed at reducing exposure to endocrine disruptors and protecting maternal and fetal health.", "pol_abstract": "polybrominated diphenyl ethers (pbdes) are environmental contaminants that act as endocrine disruptors and are commonly used as flame retardants. human exposure to pbdes has increased over the past decade, leading to concerns about their impact on human health. while animal studies have shown that pbdes can affect fetal growth, the results of human studies have been inconsistent. this study aims to examine the relationship between maternal exposure to the most prevalent pbdes and birth weight. specifically, bde-47, bde-99, bde-100, and bde-153 levels were measured in 349 women during their first prenatal care visit at the university hospital center of sherbrooke in quebec, canada.", "mix_abstract": "polybrominated diphenyl ethers (pbdes) are environmental contaminants that act as endocrine disruptors and are used as flame retardants. there has been a rise in pbde levels in humans over the last decade, which has raised concerns about their impact on human health. animal studies have indicated that pbdes could affect fetal growth, but there is conflicting evidence from human studies. this study aims to assess the correlation between the most prevalent pbdes found in maternal blood during early pregnancy and birth weight.  methods bde-47 , bde-99 , bde-100 and bde-153 levels were measured in 349 women during their first prenatal care visit at the university hospital center of sherbrooke ( quebec , canada )"}
{"title": "mirna-205 modulates cellular invasion and migration via regulating zinc_finger_e-box_binding_homeobox_2 expression in esophageal_squamous_cell_carcinoma cells", "abstract": "background esophageal_squamous_cell_carcinoma ( escc ) is often diagnosed at later stages until they are incurable . microrna ( mir ) is a small , non-coding rna that negatively regulates gene expression mainly via translational repression . accumulating evidence indicates that deregulation of mir is associated with human malignancies including escc . the aim of this study was to identify mir that could be specifically expressed and exert distinct biological actions in escc . methods total rna was extracted from escc cell lines , oe21 and te10 , and a non-malignant human esophageal squamous cell line , het-1a , and subjected to microarray analysis .", "gen_abstract": "\n\nthe dysregulation of micrornas (mirnas) has been implicated in the development and progression of many cancers, including esophageal squamous cell carcinoma (escc). mirna-205 has been shown to play a critical role in regulating tumor invasion and migration in escc, but the underlying molecular mechanisms remain poorly understood. in this study, we investigated the impact of mirna-205 on the expression of zinc finger e-box binding homeobox 2 (zeb2), a transcription factor known to regulate epithelial-to-mesenchymal transition (emt) and cancer metastasis. we found that overexpression of mirna-205 in escc cells significantly inhibited cell invasion and migration, and this effect was mediated, at least in part, by downregulating zeb2 expression. our results suggest that mirna-205 may be a promising therapeutic target for the treatment of escc by regulating zeb2 expression and inhibiting tumor invasion and metastasis.", "pol_abstract": "the diagnosis of esophageal squamous cell carcinoma (escc) often occurs at advanced stages when treatment is not possible. micrornas (mirs), which are small non-coding rnas that mainly repress gene expression through translational regulation, have been linked to various human malignancies, including escc. this study aimed to identify mirs that are specifically expressed and have distinct biological effects in escc by extracting total rna from escc cell lines (oe21 and te10) and a non-malignant human esophageal squamous cell line (het-1a), and analyzing it through microarray techniques.", "mix_abstract": "the context is esophageal squamous cell carcinoma (escc) diagnosis being difficult until later stages when the disease is incurable. the study aims to identify specific micrornas (mir) associated with escc and their distinct biological actions.\n\nthe study's objective is to find micrornas that are uniquely expressed and exert specific biological effects in escc, which is a type of cancer that is often diagnosed at advanced stages when treatment options are limited. micrornas are small, non-coding rnas that play a role in gene expression regulation through translational repression. there is growing evidence that abnormal expression of micrornas is linked to various human malignancies, including escc.  methods total rna was extracted from escc cell lines , oe21 and te10 , and a non-malignant human esophageal squamous cell line , het-1a , and subjected to microarray analysis"}
{"title": "effects of carvedilol treatment on cardiac camp_response_element_binding_protein expression and phosphorylation in acute coxsackievirus b3-induced myocarditis", "abstract": "background the role of \u03b2-adrenergic stimulation on viral myocarditis has been investigated in animal models of viral myocarditis . excess stimulation of \u03b2-adrenergic receptors by catecholamines causes phosphorylation/activation of camp_response_element_binding_protein ( creb ) by the camp signaling pathway . creb as an important regulator of gene expression mediates the cardiovascular remodeling process and promotes anti-inflammatory immune responses . however , the creb expression and phosphorylation have not been studied , and the effects of carvedilol ( a nonselective \u03b2-adrenoceptor antagonist ) on the creb has not been investigated in the setting of acute viral myocarditis . methods this study was therefore designed to examine the effects of carvedilol on the transcriptional factor creb in a murine model of acute viral", "gen_abstract": "\n\nthis study investigates the potential therapeutic effects of carvedilol on acute coxsackievirus b3-induced myocarditis. specifically, the researchers examined the expression and phosphorylation of camp_response_element_binding_protein (creb) in cardiac tissue samples treated with carvedilol. the results indicate that carvedilol treatment may have a positive impact on creb expression and phosphorylation in the context of myocarditis. these findings suggest that carvedilol may have a role in the treatment of viral myocarditis, potentially improving cardiac function and outcomes in affected patients.", "pol_abstract": "\n\nthis abstract describes a study on the role of \u03b2-adrenergic stimulation in viral myocarditis in animal models. excess stimulation of \u03b2-adrenergic receptors activates the camp signaling pathway, causing phosphorylation/activation of creb, which regulates gene expression, cardiovascular remodeling, and anti-inflammatory immune responses. however, the effects of carvedilol, a nonselective \u03b2-adrenoceptor antagonist, on creb expression and phosphorylation in acute viral myocarditis have not been investigated. this study aims to examine the effects of carvedilol on creb in a murine model of acute viral myocarditis.", "mix_abstract": "in animal models of viral myocarditis, the effect of \u03b2-adrenergic stimulation has been studied. overstimulation of \u03b2-adrenergic receptors through catecholamines activates the camp signaling pathway, leading to the phosphorylation and activation of camp_response_element_binding_protein (creb). creb plays a crucial role in regulating gene expression, promoting anti-inflammatory immune responses, and mediating cardiovascular remodeling.  however , the creb expression and phosphorylation have not been studied , and the effects of carvedilol ( a nonselective \u03b2-adrenoceptor antagonist ) on the creb has not been investigated in the setting of acute viral myocarditis    methods this study was therefore designed to examine the effects of carvedilol on the transcriptional factor creb in a murine model of acute viral"}
{"title": "high altitude pulmonary_edema ( hape ) in a himalayan trekker : a case report", "abstract": "introduction high altitude pulmonary_edema is a non-cardiogenic form of pulmonary_edema that develops in unacclimatized individuals at altitudes over 2500 m. early recognition of symptoms and immediate descent are important for successful treatment . despite early signs and symptoms of high_altitude illness , many trekkers tend to push themselves to the maximum limit . some of them , such as the case reported here , choose to ascend on horse-back which is extremely dangerous and can be fatal . case presentation a 55 years of age indian ethnic south african lady was emergency air-lifted from 4410 m altitude in the nepal himalayas to kathamandu ( 1300 m ) with a suspected case of high_altitude pulmonary_edema .", "gen_abstract": "\n\nthis case report presents a case of high altitude pulmonary edema (hape) in a himalayan trekker. hape is a severe altitude-related illness that can occur when individuals ascend rapidly to high altitudes. the report discusses the clinical presentation of the patient, including the symptoms, physical examination, and imaging findings. the management of hape, including oxygen therapy and descent to a lower altitude, is also discussed. the case highlights the importance of awareness and timely recognition of hape in high-altitude trekkers, as well as the need for proper planning and preparation to minimize the risk of such altitude-related illnesses.", "pol_abstract": "\n\nintroduction: high altitude pulmonary edema (hape) is a non-cardiogenic type of pulmonary edema that occurs in unacclimatized individuals at altitudes above 2500m. early recognition of symptoms and prompt descent are crucial for effective treatment. despite early indications of high altitude illness, some trekkers tend to exceed their limits. this can be extremely risky and even deadly, as in the case reported here, where the individual opted to ascend on horseback.\n\ncase presentation: a 55-year-old south african woman of indian origin was air-lifted from an altitude of 4410m in the nepal himalayas to kathmandu (1300m) due to suspected hape.", "mix_abstract": "high altitude pulmonary edema is a type of pulmonary edema that occurs in individuals who are not acclimatized to high altitudes above 2500 m. it is not caused by heart-related issues. timely recognition of symptoms and prompt descent to lower altitudes are crucial for effective treatment. however, despite experiencing early signs and symptoms of high altitude illness, some hikers tend to exceed their physical limits.  some of them , such as the case reported here , choose to ascend on horse-back which is extremely dangerous and can be fatal  \n\nan indian ethnic south african woman, aged 55, was airlifted from an altitude of 4410 meters in the nepal himalayas to kathmandu (1300 meters) due to a suspected case of high altitude pulmonary edema."}
{"title": "increased ir-a/ir-b ratio in non-small cell lung_cancers associates with lower epithelial-mesenchymal transition signature and longer survival in squamous_cell_lung_carcinoma", "abstract": "background to evaluate the insulin receptor isoform mrna expression status in non-small cell lung_cancer ( nsclc ) patients . methods rna-seq data from 614 nsclc [ 355 adenocarcinomas ( luad ) and 259 squamous cell carcinomas ( lusc ) ] and 92 normal lung specimens were obtained from the cancer genome atlas ( tcga ) to evaluate the mrna expression of insulin receptor isoform a ( ir-a ) and insulin receptor isoform b ( ir-b ) . the differential expression status of the insulin receptor isoforms in nsclc patients was confirmed using qrt-pcr assays with lung_cancer cdna arrays and primary tumor samples .", "gen_abstract": "\n\nnon-small cell lung cancer (nsclc) is a leading cause of cancer-related death worldwide, and identifying molecular markers associated with prognosis and treatment response is crucial. one potential marker is the insulin receptor isoform a (ir-a) and b (ir-b) ratio, which has been linked to cancer progression and resistance to therapy. this study aimed to investigate the association between the ir-a/ir-b ratio and epithelial-mesenchymal transition (emt) signature and survival in squamous cell lung carcinoma (sqclc), a subtype of nsclc. results showed that sqclc patients with an increased ir-a/ir-b ratio had a lower emt signature and longer survival. these findings suggest that the ir-a/ir-b ratio may serve as a prognostic marker in sqclc and could potentially guide treatment decisions in nsclc.", "pol_abstract": "the aim of this study was to assess the mrna expression status of insulin receptor isoforms in non-small cell lung cancer (nsclc) patients. to achieve this, rna-seq data from 614 nsclc patients (355 adenocarcinomas and 259 squamous cell carcinomas) and 92 normal lung samples were obtained from the cancer genome atlas (tcga) database. the expression levels of insulin receptor isoform a (ir-a) and isoform b (ir-b) were evaluated using qrt-pcr assays on cdna arrays and primary tumor samples of lung cancer patients, confirming the differential expression status of these isoforms in nsclc patients.", "mix_abstract": "background:\nthe aim of this study was to evaluate the expression status of insulin receptor isoform mrna in non-small cell lung cancer (nsclc) patients.\n\nmethods:\nrna-seq data from 614 nsclc patients, including 355 adenocarcinomas (luad) and 259 squamous cell carcinomas (lusc), as well as 92 normal lung specimens, were obtained from the cancer genome atlas (tcga) database. the mrna expression of insulin receptor isoform a (ir-a) and insulin receptor isoform b (ir-b) was evaluated. the differential expression of the insulin receptor isoforms in nsclc patients was confirmed using qrt-pcr assays with lung cancer cdna arrays and primary tumor samples.\n\nnote: \ni changed some of the phrases to improve clarity and readability. i also added a few missing punctuation marks."}
{"title": "controlled release and angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibition properties of an antihypertensive_drug based on a perindopril_erbumine-layered double hydroxide nanocomposite", "abstract": "background the intercalation of perindopril_erbumine into zn/al-no 3 -layered double hydroxide resulted in the formation of a host-guest type of material . by virtue of the ion-exchange properties of layered double hydroxide , perindopril_erbumine was released in a sustained manner . therefore , this intercalated material can be used as a controlled-release formulation . results perindopril was intercalated into the interlayers and formed a well ordered , layered organic-inorganic nanocomposite . the basal spacing of the products was expanded to 21.7 \u00e5 and 19.9 \u00e5 by the ion-exchange and coprecipitation methods , respectively , in a bilayer and a monolayer arrangement , respectively .", "gen_abstract": "\n\nthe aim of this study was to develop a nanocomposite material consisting of perindopril erbumine and layered double hydroxide (ldh) for use as an antihypertensive drug. the nanocomposite was prepared through a simple coprecipitation method, and its properties were characterized using a range of analytical techniques. the results showed that the nanocomposite had excellent controlled release properties, with the drug being released over an extended period of time. furthermore, the nanocomposite demonstrated potent angiotensin-converting enzyme (ace) inhibition properties, which are crucial for the treatment of hypertension. overall, the study demonstrates the potential of the perindopril erbumine-ldh nanocomposite as an effective and efficient antihypertensive drug.", "pol_abstract": "background: the incorporation of perindopril_erbumine into zn/al-no3-layered double hydroxide led to the creation of a host-guest material. this material has controlled-release properties due to the ion-exchange capabilities of the layered double hydroxide.\n\nresults: perindopril was intercalated into the interlayers and formed an ordered organic-inorganic nanocomposite. the basal spacing of the resulting product was increased to 21.7 \u00e5 and 19.9 \u00e5 by ion-exchange and coprecipitation methods, respectively, with a bilayer or monolayer configuration.", "mix_abstract": "background the intercalation of perindopril_erbumine into zn/al-no 3 -layered double hydroxide resulted in the formation of a host-guest type of material  perindopril erbumine was released in a sustained manner due to the ion-exchange properties of layered double hydroxide.  therefore , this intercalated material can be used as a controlled-release formulation  the study yielded the following outcomes: perindopril was inserted between the interlayers, resulting in a structured organic-inorganic nanocomposite with distinct layers. the products' basal spacing increased to 21.7 \u00e5 and 19.9 \u00e5 through the ion-exchange and coprecipitation methods, respectively. the former resulted in a bilayer arrangement, while the latter yielded a monolayer arrangement."}
{"title": "high incidence of tuberculosis in the absence of isoniazid and cotrimoxazole preventive therapy in children living with hiv_in_northern_ethiopia : a retrospective follow-up study", "abstract": "objective to identify the incidence of and predictors for tuberculosis in children living with hiv_in_northern_ethiopia . design observational , retrospective follow-up study . methods a total of 645 hiv-infected children were observed between september 2009 and september 2014 . cox regression analysis was used to identify predictors for developing tb . results the incidence rate of tuberculosis was 4.2 per 100 child-years . incidence of tuberculosis was higher for subjects who were not on cotrimoxazole preventive therapy , were not on isoniazid preventive therapy , had delayed motor development , had a cd4 cell count below the threshold , had hemoglobin level less than 10 mg/dl and were assessed as world health organization ( who ) clinical stage iii or", "gen_abstract": "\n\nthis retrospective follow-up study aims to investigate the incidence of tuberculosis in children living with hiv in northern ethiopia who did not receive isoniazid and cotrimoxazole preventive therapy. the study revealed a high incidence of tuberculosis in this population, emphasizing the importance of preventive therapy for reducing the risk of tuberculosis in children living with hiv. the findings of this study can inform healthcare policies and interventions aimed at reducing the incidence of tuberculosis in children living with hiv in resource-limited settings.", "pol_abstract": "\n\nobjective: this study aimed to determine the occurrence and predictors of tuberculosis in children living with hiv in northern ethiopia.\n\ndesign: this was a retrospective observational follow-up study.\n\nmethods: the study followed a total of 645 hiv-infected children from september 2009 to september 2014. predictors for developing tb were identified using cox regression analysis.\n\nresults: the incidence rate of tuberculosis was 4.2 per 100 child-years. factors associated with a higher incidence of tuberculosis were not being on cotrimoxazole or isoniazid preventive therapy, delayed motor development, cd4 cell count below the threshold, hemoglobin level less than 10 mg/dl, and who clinical stage iii.\n\nnote: no change in meaning was made, only the wording and sentence structure were modified.", "mix_abstract": "objective:\nthe objective of this study is to identify the incidence of and predictors for tuberculosis in children living with hiv in northern ethiopia.\n\ndesign:\nthis study is an observational, retrospective follow-up study.\n\nmethods:\na total of 645 hiv-infected children were observed between september 2009 and september 2014.  cox regression analysis was used to identify predictors for developing tb  \n\nthe tuberculosis incidence was 4.2 per 100 child-years.  incidence of tuberculosis was higher for subjects who were not on cotrimoxazole preventive therapy , were not on isoniazid preventive therapy , had delayed motor development , had a cd4 cell count below the threshold , had hemoglobin level less than 10 mg/dl and were assessed as world health organization ( who ) clinical stage iii or"}
{"title": "impact of colic_pain as a significant factor for predicting the stone free rate of one-session shock wave lithotripsy for treating ureter_stones : a bayesian logistic regression model analysis", "abstract": "purpose this study was conducted to evaluate colic pain as a prognostic pretreatment factor that can influence ureter_stone clearance and to estimate the probability of stone-free status in shock wave lithotripsy ( swl ) patients with a ureter_stone . materials and methods we retrospectively reviewed the medical records of 1,418 patients who underwent their first swl between 2005 and 2013 . among these patients , 551 had a ureter_stone measuring 4\u201320 mm and were thus eligible for our analyses . the colic pain as the chief complaint was defined as either subjective flank pain during history taking and physical examination .", "gen_abstract": "\n\nthis study investigates the impact of colic pain on the stone-free rate of one-session shock wave lithotripsy for treating ureter stones. a bayesian logistic regression model analysis was used to examine the relationship between colic pain and the success of the treatment. the results indicate that colic pain is a significant factor for predicting the stone-free rate of one-session shock wave lithotripsy, and its impact is influenced by other patient-related variables. these findings have important implications for the management of ureter stones and may help clinicians to better predict treatment outcomes and tailor patient care accordingly.", "pol_abstract": "\n\nthe aim of this research was to assess the potential impact of colic pain on the success of shock wave lithotripsy (swl) for ureter stones, and to determine the likelihood of patients achieving a stone-free status. a retrospective analysis was conducted on the medical records of 1,418 patients who underwent their first swl procedure between 2005 and 2013, with 551 patients eligible for the study due to having ureter stones measuring 4-20mm. colic pain was identified as subjective flank pain reported during medical history taking and physical examination.", "mix_abstract": "the aim of this study was to assess whether colic pain could serve as a predictive factor before treatment, affecting the success of ureter_stone removal using shock wave lithotripsy (swl), and to determine the likelihood of patients achieving a stone-free status. the research involved a retrospective analysis of medical records of 1,418 individuals who underwent their initial swl procedure between 2005 and 2013.  among these patients , 551 had a ureter_stone measuring 4\u201320 mm and were thus eligible for our analyses  during the process of obtaining a medical history and performing a physical examination, if the patient reports experiencing flank pain, it is defined as the primary complaint known as colic pain."}
{"title": "image cytometric analysis of p53 and mdm-2 expression in primary and recurrent mucoepidermoid_carcinoma of parotid gland : immunohistochemical study", "abstract": "aims and objectives this study aims to analyze immunocytochemically p53 aberrant expression and mdm-2 expression in primary and recurrent mucoepidermoid_carcinoma ( mec ) of parotid gland and to ascertain if expression of these markers correlates with tumor behavior , clinical outcome , histological grade and local recurrence . methods 20 cases histologically diagnosed as primary mec with different grades were included in the study . out of 20 cases , 7 were classified as grade i , 8 as grade ii and 5 as grade iii . immunohistochemical staining of these 20 primary cases as well as 6 recurrent cases with anti-p53 and anti-mdm-2 antibodies was carried out .", "gen_abstract": "\n\nthis study focuses on the analysis of p53 and mdm-2 expression in primary and recurrent mucoepidermoid carcinoma of the parotid gland using image cytometry and immunohistochemistry. the aim of this research is to investigate the changes in these biomarkers between primary and recurrent tumors and determine their potential as prognostic indicators. the results of this study have the potential to provide valuable insights into the pathogenesis of mucoepidermoid carcinoma and may help to develop targeted therapies for this aggressive form of cancer.", "pol_abstract": "the objective of this research is to examine the expression of p53 and mdm-2 in primary and recurrent mucoepidermoid carcinoma (mec) of the parotid gland using immunocytochemical analysis. the study aims to determine whether the expression of these markers is associated with tumor behavior, clinical outcome, histological grade, and local recurrence. the research includes 20 cases of primary mec with varying grades, including 7 grade i, 8 grade ii, and 5 grade iii cases. immunohistochemical staining is conducted on the 20 primary cases and 6 recurrent cases using anti-p53 and anti-mdm-2 antibodies.", "mix_abstract": "aims and objectives: \n\nthe aim of this study is to conduct an immunocytochemical analysis of p53 aberrant expression and mdm-2 expression in primary and recurrent mucoepidermoid carcinoma (mec) of the parotid gland. additionally, we aim to determine whether the expression of these markers correlates with tumor behavior, clinical outcome, histological grade, and local recurrence. \n\nmethods: \n\nwe included 20 cases of primary mec with varying grades in this study. the 20 cases comprised 7 cases of grade i, 8 cases of grade ii, and 5 cases of grade iii, as confirmed by histological diagnosis.  immunohistochemical staining of these 20 primary cases as well as 6 recurrent cases with anti-p53 and anti-mdm-2 antibodies was carried out"}
{"title": "pulse-modulated radio-frequency alternating-current-driven atmospheric-pressure glow discharge for continuous-flow synthesis of silver nanoparticles and evaluation of their cytotoxicity toward human melanoma cells", "abstract": "an innovative and environmentally friendly method for the synthesis of size-controlled silver nanoparticles ( agnps ) is presented . pectin-stabilized agnps were synthesized in a plasma-reaction system in which pulse-modulated radio-frequency atmospheric-pressure glow discharge ( pm-rf-apgd ) was operated in contact with a flowing liquid electrode . the use of pm-rf-apgd allows for better control of the size of agnps and their stability and monodispersity . agnps synthesized under defined operating conditions exhibited average sizes of 41.62 \u00b1 12.08 nm and 10.38 \u00b1 4.56 nm , as determined by dynamic light scattering and transmission electron microscopy ( tem ) , respectively .", "gen_abstract": "\n\nthis study investigates the continuous-flow synthesis of silver nanoparticles (ag nps) using a pulse-modulated radio-frequency alternating-current-driven atmospheric-pressure glow discharge method. the method allows for the precise control of particle size and morphology through varying the discharge parameters. the cytotoxicity of the synthesized ag nps towards human melanoma cells is also evaluated to determine their potential for biomedical applications. the results show that the synthesized ag nps exhibit excellent cytotoxicity against melanoma cells, making them a promising candidate for further research in the field of cancer therapeutics. overall, this study highlights the potential of the proposed method for the scalable and sustainable production of ag nps with well-controlled properties for various biomedical applications.", "pol_abstract": "this article describes an innovative and environmentally-friendly method for synthesizing size-controlled silver nanoparticles (agnps) using a plasma-reaction system. the agnps were stabilized with pectin and synthesized by operating a pulse-modulated radio-frequency atmospheric-pressure glow discharge (pm-rf-apgd) in contact with a flowing liquid electrode. this approach provides improved control over the size, stability, and monodispersity of the agnps. the agnps synthesized under specific operating conditions had an average size of 41.62 \u00b1 12.08 nm and 10.38 \u00b1 4.56 nm, as determined by dynamic light scattering and transmission electron microscopy (tem), respectively.", "mix_abstract": "an innovative and environmentally friendly method for the synthesis of size-controlled silver nanoparticles ( agnps ) is presented  in a plasma-reaction system, pectin was utilized to stabilize agnps by operating a pulse-modulated radio-frequency atmospheric-pressure glow discharge (pm-rf-apgd) in contact with a flowing liquid electrode. this method allowed for improved control over the size, stability, and uniformity of the agnps. when synthesized under specific operating conditions, the agnps had an average size of 41.62 \u00b1 12.08 nm and 10.11 \u00b1 2.43 nm. 38 \u00b1 4 \n\nthe particle size was determined to be 56 nm using both dynamic light scattering and transmission electron microscopy (tem)."}
{"title": "nitric_oxide induces cell death in canine cruciate ligament cells by activation of tyrosine kinase and reactive_oxygen_species", "abstract": "background there is increasing evidence suggesting that development of progressive canine cranial cruciate ligament ( ccl ) rupture involves a gradual degeneration of the ccl itself , initiated by a combination of factors , ranging from mechanical to biochemical . to date , knowledge is lacking to what extent cruciate disease results from abnormal biomechanics on a normal ligament or contrary how far preliminary alterations of the ligament due to biochemical factors provoke abnormal biomechanics . this study is focused on nitric_oxide ( no ) , one of the potential biochemical factors . the no-donor sodium nitroprusside ( snp ) has been used to study no-dependent cell death in canine cranial and caudal cruciate ligament cells and to characterize signaling mechanisms during", "gen_abstract": "\n\nthe study investigates the effect of nitric oxide (no) on canine cruciate ligament cells and the underlying molecular mechanisms. results indicate that no induces cell death in these cells through the activation of tyrosine kinase and reactive oxygen species. the study provides insights into the potential role of no in ligament injury and repair processes, highlighting the importance of targeted therapies for ligament-related disorders.", "pol_abstract": "background: there is growing evidence indicating that the development of progressive canine cranial cruciate ligament (ccl) rupture involves a gradual degeneration of the ccl itself, which is initiated by a combination of factors, ranging from mechanical to biochemical. currently, it is unclear to what extent cruciate disease results from abnormal biomechanics on a normal ligament or conversely, how preliminary alterations of the ligament due to biochemical factors lead to abnormal biomechanics. this study focuses on investigating the role of nitric oxide (no) as one of the potential biochemical factors. the study utilizes the no-donor sodium nitroprusside (snp) to examine no-dependent cell death in canine cranial and caudal cruciate ligament cells and to identify signaling mechanisms during this process.", "mix_abstract": "background:\nthere is growing evidence to suggest that the development of progressive cranial cruciate ligament (ccl) rupture in canines involves a gradual degeneration of the ccl itself. this degeneration is initiated by a combination of factors, including mechanical and biochemical factors. however, to date, knowledge regarding the extent to which cruciate disease results from abnormal biomechanics on a normal ligament or how preliminary alterations of the ligament due to biochemical factors provoke abnormal biomechanics remains lacking. this study aims to investigate nitric oxide (no) as a potential biochemical factor involved in the development of ccl rupture.  the no-donor sodium nitroprusside ( snp ) has been used to study no-dependent cell death in canine cranial and caudal cruciate ligament cells and to characterize signaling mechanisms during"}
{"title": "an elevated glycemic gap is associated with adverse outcomes in diabetic patients with community-acquired_pneumonia", "abstract": "abstract several studies argue against the association between admission hyperglycemia and adverse outcomes in infected diabetic patients . when investigating the association , it is necessary to consider preexisting hyperglycemia . the objective of this study was to assess whether stress-induced hyperglycemia , determined by the glycemic gap between admission glucose levels and a1c-derived average glucose levels adversely affects outcomes in diabetic patients admitted to hospital with community-acquired_pneumonia ( cap ) . we retrospectively analyzed the glycemic gap and adverse outcomes of diabetic patients hospitalized because of cap from june 1 , 2007 to august 31 , 2012 in single medical center in taiwan .", "gen_abstract": "\n\nthis study aimed to investigate the association between an elevated glycemic gap and adverse outcomes in diabetic patients with community-acquired pneumonia. a retrospective analysis of medical records of 250 patients was performed, and an elevated glycemic gap was found to be significantly associated with an increased risk of mortality, longer hospital stays, and higher rates of complications. the findings suggest that monitoring the glycemic gap in diabetic patients with pneumonia may be a useful prognostic tool to identify those at higher risk of adverse outcomes and may inform clinical management decisions.", "pol_abstract": "numerous studies have contradicted the link between admission hyperglycemia and unfavorable outcomes in infected diabetic patients. to properly investigate this association, preexisting hyperglycemia must be taken into account. the aim of this investigation was to evaluate whether stress-induced hyperglycemia, as measured by the difference between admission glucose levels and a1c-derived average glucose levels, adversely impacts outcomes in diabetic patients who are admitted to the hospital with community-acquired pneumonia (cap). we conducted a retrospective analysis of the glycemic gap and unfavorable outcomes in diabetic patients who were admitted to a single medical center in taiwan due to cap between june 1, 2007, and august 31, 2012.", "mix_abstract": "numerous studies have contradicted the notion that infected diabetic patients experience negative consequences due to high blood sugar levels upon admission.  when investigating the association , it is necessary to consider preexisting hyperglycemia  the aim of this research was to evaluate if stress-induced hyperglycemia, which is characterized by the difference between admission glucose levels and a1c-derived average glucose levels, has a negative impact on the results of diabetic patients who were admitted to a hospital due to community-acquired pneumonia (cap). in a single medical center in taiwan, we conducted a retrospective analysis of the glycemic gap and unfavorable outcomes of diabetic patients who were hospitalized for cap between june 1, 2007, and august 31, 2012."}
{"title": "changes in copper , zinc , and malondialdehyde levels and superoxide dismutase activities in pre-eclamptic pregnancies", "abstract": "background preeclampsia ( pe ) is a hypertensive disorder that occurs in 2 % to 8 % of pregnancies . although numerous studies have investigated the etiology and pathophysiology of preeclampsia , the precise pathological mechanisms remain poorly understood . hence , in the present study malondialdehyde ( mda ) levels and sod expression , and cu and zn concentrations and ratios were correlated with birth weights in pregnant women with and without pe , and in non-pregnant females of reproductive age . material/methods malondialdehyde ( mda ) levels and superoxide dismutase ( sod ) activities were determined spectrophotometrically , and cu and zn levels were determined using atomic absorption spectrometry in serum from 42 non-pregnant women ( np ) , 40 healthy pregnant women ( hp ) , and 38 pre-eclamptic pregnant ( pe )", "gen_abstract": "\n\nthis study aimed to investigate changes in copper, zinc, and malondialdehyde levels, as well as superoxide dismutase activities in pre-eclamptic pregnancies. pre-eclampsia is a pregnancy-specific disorder that affects multiple organ systems, and it is a leading cause of maternal and fetal morbidity and mortality. the study included pregnant women diagnosed with pre-eclampsia and healthy pregnant women as controls. blood samples were collected from both groups, and levels of copper, zinc, and malondialdehyde were measured. superoxide dismutase activities were also assessed as an indicator of antioxidant defense. the results showed that pre-eclamptic pregnancies had significantly lower levels of zinc and superoxide dismutase activities but higher levels of copper and malondialdehyde. these findings suggest that oxidative stress and impaired antioxidant defense mechanisms may play a role in the pathogenesis of pre-eclampsia. further research is needed to explore the mechanisms underlying these changes and their potential therapeutic implications.", "pol_abstract": "\n\nbackground: preeclampsia (pe) is a hypertensive disorder affecting 2% to 8% of pregnancies. despite numerous studies on its etiology and pathophysiology, the precise pathological mechanisms remain poorly understood. this study aimed to correlate malondialdehyde (mda) levels and superoxide dismutase (sod) expression, as well as copper (cu) and zinc (zn) concentrations and ratios with birth weights in non-pregnant females of reproductive age, healthy pregnant women (hp), and pre-eclamptic pregnant women (pe).\n\nmaterial and methods: serum samples from 42 non-pregnant women (np), 40 healthy pregnant women, and 38 pre-eclamptic pregnant women were used to determine mda levels and sod activities spectrophotometrically, and cu and zn levels were determined using atomic absorption spectrometry.", "mix_abstract": "preeclampsia (pe) is a condition of high blood pressure that affects 2% to 8% of pregnancies. despite extensive research into its causes and mechanisms, the underlying pathological processes are not fully understood. to shed more light on this, the current study explored the relationship between malondialdehyde (mda) levels, superoxide dismutase (sod) expression, and copper (cu) and zinc (zn) concentrations and ratios with birth weights. this investigation involved pregnant women both with and without pe, as well as non-pregnant females of reproductive age.  material/methods malondialdehyde ( mda ) levels and superoxide dismutase ( sod ) activities were determined spectrophotometrically , and cu and zn levels were determined using atomic absorption spectrometry in serum from 42 non-pregnant women ( np ) , 40 healthy pregnant women ( hp ) , and 38 pre-eclamptic pregnant ( pe )"}
{"title": "the montreal cognitive assessment is superior to national institute of neurological_disease and stroke-canadian_stroke network 5-minute protocol in predicting vascular_cognitive_impairment at 1 year", "abstract": "background the predictive ability of national institute of neurological_disease and stroke-canadian_stroke network ( ninds-csn ) 5-minute protocol and montreal cognitive assessment ( moca ) administered sub-acutely and at the convalescent phase after stroke for significant vascular_cognitive_impairment ( vci ) at 1 year is unknown . we compared prognostic values of these tests . methods patients with ischemic stroke and transient ischemic attack ( tia ) received moca sub-acutely ( within 2 weeks ) and 3\u20136 months after stroke followed by a formal neuropsychological evaluation at 1 year . the total score of ninds-csn 5-minutes protocol was derived from moca . moderate-severe vci was defined as neuropsychological impairment in \u2265 3 domains .", "gen_abstract": "\n\nthe objective of this study is to compare the predictive power of the montreal cognitive assessment (moca) and the national institute of neurological disease and stroke-canadian stroke network 5-minute protocol (nihss-csn 5) in identifying vascular cognitive impairment (vci) at one-year follow-up. a total of 150 patients with vascular risk factors who had experienced a transient ischemic attack or stroke were included in the study. the results indicate that the moca is superior to the nihss-csn 5 in predicting vci at one year. the moca had a higher sensitivity and specificity, and a better area under the curve (auc) than the nihss-csn 5. the findings suggest that the moca may be a more effective tool for early identification and management of vci in patients with vascular risk factors.", "pol_abstract": "\n\nbackground:\nit is not clear whether the national institute of neurological disorders and stroke-canadian stroke network (ninds-csn) 5-minute protocol and the montreal cognitive assessment (moca), when administered sub-acutely and at the convalescent phase after stroke, can predict significant vascular cognitive impairment (vci) at 1 year. this study aimed to compare the prognostic value of these tests.\n\nmethods:\npatients with ischemic stroke and transient ischemic attack (tia) underwent moca testing within 2 weeks and at 3-6 months after stroke, followed by a formal neuropsychological evaluation at 1 year. the total score of ninds-csn 5-minute protocol was derived from moca. neuropsychological impairment in \u2265 3 domains was considered as moderate-severe vci.", "mix_abstract": "the ninds-csn 5-minute protocol and the montreal cognitive assessment (moca) are administered sub-acutely and during the convalescent phase after stroke to predict significant vascular cognitive impairment (vci) at 1 year. however, their predictive abilities are unknown. in this study, we compared the prognostic values of these tests. patients with ischemic stroke and transient ischemic attack (tia) received the moca within 2 weeks of the stroke and again 3-6 months later, followed by a formal neuropsychological evaluation at 1 year. the ninds-csn 5-minute protocol's total score was derived from the moca.  moderate-severe vci was defined as neuropsychological impairment in \u2265 3 domains"}
{"title": "progress of elemental_anomalies of hippocampal formation in the pilocarpine model of temporal_lobe_epilepsy\u2014an x-ray fluorescence microscopy study", "abstract": "in the present paper , x-ray fluorescence microscopy was applied to follow the processes occurring in rat hippocampal formation during the post-seizure period . in the study , one of the status epilepticus animal models of epilepsy was used , namely the model of temporal_lobe_epilepsy with pilocarpine-induced seizures . in order to analyze the dynamics of seizure-induced elemental changes , the samples taken from seizure-experiencing animals 3 h and 1 , 4 , and 7 days after proconvulsive agent administration were analyzed . the obtained results confirmed the utility of x-ray fluorescence microscopy in the research of mechanisms involved in the pathogenesis and progress of epilepsy .", "gen_abstract": "\n\nthis study investigates the elemental anomalies in the hippocampal formation of the pilocarpine model of temporal lobe epilepsy (tle) using x-ray fluorescence microscopy. the pilocarpine model of tle is a widely used animal model that replicates several aspects of human tle. elemental anomalies in the hippocampal formation have been reported in tle, but the underlying mechanisms are still poorly understood. in this study, x-ray fluorescence microscopy was used to investigate the changes in elemental distribution in the hippocampal formation of rats with pilocarpine-induced tle. the study provides novel insights into the changes in elemental distribution in the hippocampal formation in tle and may have important implications for the diagnosis and treatment of this debilitating disorder.", "pol_abstract": "the aim of this paper was to use x-ray fluorescence microscopy to investigate the processes occurring in the rat hippocampal formation after seizures. the study utilized the temporal lobe epilepsy model induced by pilocarpine-induced seizures. the elemental changes in the seizure-induced samples were analyzed at 3 hours, 1, 4, and 7 days after administering the proconvulsive agent. the results confirmed the effectiveness of x-ray fluorescence microscopy for understanding the mechanisms involved in the pathogenesis and progression of epilepsy.", "mix_abstract": "the current study utilized x-ray fluorescence microscopy to track the events taking place in the hippocampal formation of rats during the post-seizure period.  in the study , one of the status epilepticus animal models of epilepsy was used , namely the model of temporal_lobe_epilepsy with pilocarpine-induced seizures  \n\nthe aim of this study was to use x-ray fluorescence microscopy to investigate the elemental changes induced by seizures. samples were collected from animals experiencing seizures at 3 hours and 1, 4, and 7 days after administration of a proconvulsive agent. the results demonstrated that x-ray fluorescence microscopy is a valuable tool for exploring the mechanisms underlying the development and progression of epilepsy."}
{"title": "internet-based early intervention to prevent posttraumatic_stress_disorder in injury patients : randomized controlled trial", "abstract": "background posttraumatic stress disorder ( ptsd ) develops in 10-20 % of injury patients . we developed a novel , self-guided internet-based intervention ( called trauma tips ) based on techniques from cognitive behavioral therapy ( cbt ) to prevent the onset of ptsd symptoms . objective to determine whether trauma tips is effective in preventing the onset of ptsd symptoms in injury patients . methods adult , level 1 trauma center patients were randomly assigned to receive the fully automated trauma tips internet intervention ( n=151 ) or to receive no early intervention ( n=149 ) . trauma tips consisted of psychoeducation , in vivo exposure , and stress management techniques .", "gen_abstract": "\n\nthis study aims to investigate the efficacy of an internet-based early intervention program in preventing posttraumatic stress disorder (ptsd) in injury patients. a randomized controlled trial will be conducted to compare the intervention group, which receives online psychoeducation and coping strategies immediately after hospital discharge, with the control group, which receives usual care. the primary outcome measure will be the incidence of ptsd at 3-month follow-up. secondary outcome measures will include changes in anxiety and depression symptoms, quality of life, and healthcare utilization. the findings of this study could have important implications for improving the mental health outcomes of injury patients through accessible and cost-effective interventions.", "pol_abstract": "\n\nbackground:\napproximately 10-20% of injury patients develop post-traumatic stress disorder (ptsd). to prevent the onset of ptsd symptoms, we have created trauma tips, a self-guided internet-based intervention using cognitive behavioral therapy (cbt) techniques.\n\nobjective:\nthe aim of this study was to determine the effectiveness of trauma tips in preventing ptsd symptoms in injury patients.\n\nmethods:\nadult patients at a level 1 trauma center were randomly assigned to either receive the fully automated trauma tips internet intervention (n=151) or no early intervention (n=149). trauma tips comprises psychoeducation, in vivo exposure, and stress management techniques.", "mix_abstract": "background:\npost  trauma tips consisted of psychoeducation , in vivo exposure , and stress management techniques"}
{"title": "association of pre-operative depressive_and_anxiety_symptoms with five-year survival of glioma and meningioma patients : a prospective cohort study", "abstract": "background mental symptoms are common and associated with worse health status of brain tumor patients . we evaluated the association of pre-operative depressive_and_anxiety_symptoms with 5-year mortality of glioma and meningioma patients . methods one-hundred and fifty-two patients ( mean age 56.9\u00b114.7 years , 69 % women ) were evaluated for functional status ( barthel index ) , and depressive and anxiety symptom severity ( hospital anxiety and depression scale or hads ) . patients were categorized as having mild , moderate or severe depressive/anxiety symptoms if they scored \u22647 , 8-10 or \u226511 on the hads , respectively . information pertaining to histological diagnosis , extent of resection and adjuvant therapies were obtained from medical records .", "gen_abstract": "\n\nthis prospective cohort study aims to investigate the association between pre-operative depressive and anxiety symptoms and the five-year survival of patients with glioma and meningioma. the study recruited a large sample of patients with these brain tumors and measured their depressive and anxiety symptoms using validated questionnaires before their surgery. the study followed up with these patients for five years and recorded their survival outcomes. the results of the study suggest that pre-operative depressive and anxiety symptoms may be associated with reduced five-year survival in glioma and meningioma patients. these findings may have important implications for the clinical management of brain tumor patients, particularly in the pre-operative period when mental health support may be crucial for optimizing treatment outcomes.", "pol_abstract": "\n\nbackground:\nmental symptoms are prevalent among brain tumor patients and are linked to poorer health status. we assessed the correlation between pre-operative depressive and anxiety symptoms and 5-year mortality rates in glioma and meningioma patients.\n\nmethods:\na total of 152 patients, 69% of whom were female with a mean age of 56.9\u00b114.7 years, were evaluated for functional status (barthel index) and severity of depressive and anxiety symptoms (hospital anxiety and depression scale or hads). patients were classified as having mild, moderate, or severe depressive/anxiety symptoms based on their hads score (\u22647, 8-10, or \u226511, respectively). medical records were used to obtain information on histological diagnosis, extent of resection, and adjuvant therapies.\n\nnote: the abstract has been rewritten by maintaining the original meaning while improving readability and clarity.", "mix_abstract": "the prevalence of mental symptoms is high among brain tumor patients and is linked to poorer health outcomes. in this study, we examined how preoperative symptoms of depression and anxiety are related to the 5-year mortality rate of patients with glioma and meningioma. our sample consisted of 152 patients, with an average age of 56. 9\u00b114 \n\nmedical records of patients who were predominantly women (69%) and followed up for 7 years were reviewed to evaluate their functional status using the barthel index and to assess the severity of depressive and anxiety symptoms using the hospital anxiety and depression scale (hads). the patients were classified as having mild, moderate or severe symptoms based on their hads scores of \u22647, 8-10, or \u226511, respectively. relevant data on the histological diagnosis, extent of resection, and adjuvant therapies were extracted from their medical records."}
{"title": "in vitro digestion and lactase treatment influence uptake of quercetin and quercetin glucoside by the caco-2 cell monolayer", "abstract": "background quercetin and quercetin glycosides are widely consumed flavonoids found in many fruits and vegetables . these compounds have a wide range of potential health benefits , and understanding the bioavailability of flavonoids from foods is becoming increasingly important . methods this study combined an in vitro digestion , a lactase treatment and the caco-2 cell model to examine quercetin and quercetin glucoside uptake from shallot and apple homogenates . results the in vitro digestion alone significantly decreased quercetin aglycone recovery from the shallot digestate ( p < 0.05 ) , but had no significant effect on quercetin-3-glucoside recovery ( p > 0.05 ) .", "gen_abstract": "\n\nthis study aimed to investigate the impact of in vitro digestion and lactase treatment on the absorption of quercetin and quercetin glucoside by the caco-2 cell monolayer. using a simulated gastrointestinal model, the researchers found that quercetin glucoside was more resistant to digestion and showed higher absorption compared to quercetin. lactase treatment also increased the uptake of both compounds, suggesting that lactose intolerant individuals may have a reduced ability to absorb these compounds. these findings highlight the importance of considering food processing and individual differences in lactase activity when studying the bioavailability of dietary phytochemicals.", "pol_abstract": "context quercetin and its glycosides are flavonoids that are present in a variety of fruits and vegetables, and have potential health benefits. it is important to understand the bioavailability of flavonoids in food. this study used in vitro digestion, lactase treatment, and the caco-2 cell model to investigate the uptake of quercetin and quercetin glucoside from shallot and apple homogenates.\n\nrewritten: \nquercetin and quercetin glycosides are flavonoids commonly found in various fruits and vegetables, and have been associated with numerous health benefits. investigating the bioavailability of flavonoids from food sources is increasingly crucial. in this study, an in vitro digestion, lactase treatment, and the caco-2 cell model were utilized to explore the uptake of quercetin and quercetin glucoside from shallot and apple homogenates. the results revealed that while in vitro digestion significantly reduced the recovery of quercetin aglycone from the shallot digestate (p<0.05), it did not have a significant impact on the recovery of quercetin-3-glucoside (p>0.05).", "mix_abstract": "background quercetin and quercetin glycosides are widely consumed flavonoids found in many fruits and vegetables  \n\nrevised: these compounds offer a vast range of potential health benefits, and understanding the bioavailability of flavonoids in foods is becoming increasingly crucial. the present study employed a combination of in vitro digestion, lactase treatment, and the caco-2 cell model to investigate the uptake of quercetin and quercetin glucoside from shallot and apple homogenates. the results showed that the in vitro digestion alone significantly decreased the recovery of quercetin aglycone from the shallot digestate (p < 0.05), but had no significant effect on quercetin-3-glucoside recovery (p > 0.05)."}
{"title": "surgical treatment of pulsatile_tinnitus caused by the sigmoid sinus diverticulum", "abstract": "abstract the sigmoid_sinus_diverticulum ( ssd ) is an increasingly recognized cause of pulsatile tinnitus ( pt ) . surgical reconstruction of the sigmoid sinus wall has been found to be highly effective for ssd ; however , surgical techniques still need to be refined to reduce the incidence of serious postoperative complications . moreover , scrutinizing more cases of ssd is desirable for establishing the diagnostic criteria and standardizing the surgical technique . this study was retrospectively undertaken in 28 patients who were diagnosed with ssd upon computed tomography angiography ( cta ) and digital subtraction angiography findings at beijing tongren hospital in china .", "gen_abstract": "\n\npulsatile tinnitus is a distressing condition characterized by hearing sounds that pulse in rhythm with the heartbeat. it can be caused by a variety of factors, including vascular abnormalities such as sigmoid sinus diverticulum. in cases where conservative treatment fails to alleviate symptoms, surgical intervention may be necessary. the surgical approach involves identifying and repairing the underlying abnormality. this abstract provides an overview of the surgical treatment of pulsatile tinnitus caused by sigmoid sinus diverticulum, including the diagnostic workup, surgical technique, and outcomes. despite the complexity of the procedure, surgical intervention can provide long-term relief for patients suffering from this debilitating condition.", "pol_abstract": "\n\nthe sigmoid sinus diverticulum (ssd) is a well-known source of pulsatile tinnitus (pt). although surgical reconstruction of the sigmoid sinus wall is a highly effective treatment for ssd, efforts are ongoing to refine surgical techniques and minimize postoperative complications. additionally, it is desirable to examine more cases of ssd to establish diagnostic criteria and standardize surgical techniques. this retrospective study examined 28 patients diagnosed with ssd using computed tomography angiography (cta) and digital subtraction angiography at beijing tongren hospital in china.", "mix_abstract": "the incidence of pulsatile tinnitus (pt) is increasingly being attributed to sigmoid sinus diverticulum (ssd). although surgical reconstruction of the sigmoid sinus wall has shown high efficacy for treating ssd, there is still a need to refine surgical techniques to minimize the occurrence of postoperative complications. additionally, further examination of more cases of ssd is desirable for establishing diagnostic criteria and standardizing surgical techniques.  this study was retrospectively undertaken in 28 patients who were diagnosed with ssd upon computed tomography angiography ( cta ) and digital subtraction angiography findings at beijing tongren hospital in china"}
{"title": "a multinational phase iib/iii trial of beraprost_sodium , an orally active prostacyclin analogue , in patients with primary glomerular_disease or nephrosclerosis ( cassiopeir trial ) , rationale and study design", "abstract": "background chronic kidney disease ( ckd ) is public health concern even in asian countries . trk-100stp , a sustained release tablet of an orally-active prostacyclin analogue , beraprost_sodium , is suggested to suppress worsening of some parameters of renal filtration function , containing in slope of 1/serum creatinine ( 1/scr ) vs. time in a phase ii clinical trial . methods/design we describe the design of the phase iib/iii trial of trk-100stp , cassiopeir ( c rf as ian s tudy w i th o ral p gi 2 derivative for e valuating i mprovement of r enal function ) conducted in approximately 160 centers in china , hong kong , japan , malaysia , republic of korea , taiwan , and", "gen_abstract": "\n\nthe cassiopeir trial is a multinational phase iib/iii study designed to evaluate the safety and efficacy of beraprost sodium, an orally active prostacyclin analogue, in patients with primary glomerular disease or nephrosclerosis. the trial aims to investigate whether the drug can slow down or prevent the progression of renal disease by improving renal hemodynamics, reducing proteinuria, and decreasing inflammatory processes. this abstract provides an overview of the rationale and study design of the cassiopeir trial, highlighting the importance of finding new therapeutic options to prevent or delay the development of end-stage renal disease in patients with glomerular disease or nephrosclerosis.", "pol_abstract": "background:\nchronic kidney disease (ckd) is a major public health concern in asian countries. in a phase ii clinical trial, trk-100stp, a sustained release tablet of beraprost_sodium, an orally-active prostacyclin analogue, showed potential in suppressing the worsening of certain parameters of renal filtration function, including the slope of 1/serum creatinine (1/scr) vs. time.\n\nmethods/design:\nthis article presents the design of the phase iib/iii trial of trk-100stp, called cassiopeir (crf asian study with oral pgi2 derivative for evaluating improvement of renal function), which will be conducted across approximately 160 centers in china, hong kong, japan, malaysia, republic of korea, taiwan, and", "mix_abstract": "chronic kidney disease (ckd) remains a significant public health issue, even in asian countries. in a phase ii clinical trial, trk-100stp, a sustained-release tablet of the orally-active prostacyclin analogue, beraprost sodium, was found to potentially inhibit the deterioration of certain renal filtration function parameters, as indicated by the slope of 1/serum creatinine (1/scr) over time.  methods/design we describe the design of the phase iib/iii trial of trk-100stp , cassiopeir ( c rf as ian s tudy w i th o ral p gi 2 derivative for e valuating i mprovement of r enal function ) conducted in approximately 160 centers in china , hong kong , japan , malaysia , republic of korea , taiwan , and"}
{"title": "alkaline peroxide pretreatment of corn_stover : effects of biomass , peroxide , and enzyme loading and composition on yields of glucose and xylose", "abstract": "background pretreatment is a critical step in the conversion of lignocellulose to fermentable sugars . although many pretreatment processes are currently under investigation , none of them are entirely satisfactory in regard to effectiveness , cost , or environmental impact . the use of hydrogen peroxide at ph 11.5 ( alkaline hydrogen peroxide ( ahp ) ) was shown by gould and coworkers to be an effective pretreatment of grass stovers and other plant materials in the context of animal nutrition and ethanol production . our earlier experiments indicated that ahp performed well when compared against two other alkaline pretreatments .", "gen_abstract": "\n\nthis study investigates the effects of biomass, peroxide, and enzyme loading and composition on glucose and xylose yields in alkaline peroxide pretreatment of corn stover. the experiment was conducted by varying the biomass loading from 2 to 20%, the peroxide concentration from 0.1 to 2%, and the enzyme loading and composition. the results show that the glucose and xylose yields increase with increasing biomass loading, peroxide concentration, and enzyme loading. the optimal conditions for maximizing glucose and xylose yields were found to be 10% biomass loading, 2% peroxide concentration, and 20 fpu/g cellulose enzyme loading with a ratio of 70:30 of cellulase to xylanase. these findings can help optimize the process of alkaline peroxide pretreatment of corn stover for efficient production of glucose and xylose, which can be further used as a feedstock for the production of biofuels and other value-added products.", "pol_abstract": "\n\nthe pretreatment of lignocellulose to produce fermentable sugars is a crucial step, and while several methods are being studied, none of them are fully satisfactory in terms of cost-effectiveness and environmental impact. gould and colleagues demonstrated that alkaline hydrogen peroxide (ahp) at ph 11.5 is a successful pretreatment for plant materials like grass stovers, especially for animal nutrition and ethanol production. our previous experiments have also indicated that ahp performed better than two other alkaline pretreatments.", "mix_abstract": "the preliminary treatment of lignocellulose is an essential stage in the process of transforming it into fermentable sugars.  although many pretreatment processes are currently under investigation , none of them are entirely satisfactory in regard to effectiveness , cost , or environmental impact  the use of alkaline hydrogen peroxide (ahp), which is hydrogen peroxide at ph 11.5, has been demonstrated by gould and colleagues as an effective pre-treatment method for grass stovers and other plant materials. this method has been particularly useful in the context of animal nutrition and ethanol production. previous experiments that we conducted showed that ahp performed better than two other alkaline pre-treatment methods."}
{"title": "clinicopathological study on thyroid_follicular_carcinoma-like renal_tumor related to serious hypertension", "abstract": "abstract rationale : thyroid carcinoma-like tumor of the kidney ( tlfck ) is an extremely rare variant of renal cell carcinoma . most cases were incidentally found , while we report the first case of tlfck presented with hypertension . patient concerns : a 25-year-old woman was admitted to our hospital presenting with hypertension for \u223c20 months , without gross hematuria , weight loss , and flank pain . diagnoses : imaging studies revealed a right renal mass with multiple calcifications . histologically , the tumor had striking follicles with dense , colloid-like material resembling thyroid_follicular_carcinoma while the tumor cells were negative for thyroid markers ( thyroglobulin and thyroid transcription factor-1 ) .", "gen_abstract": "\n\nthis clinicopathological study aims to investigate the characteristics of a rare type of renal tumor, called thyroid follicular carcinoma-like renal tumor (tfcrt), that is associated with serious hypertension. through the analysis of clinical and pathological data from a cohort of patients, the study provides insights into the epidemiology, clinical presentation, imaging features, histology, and prognosis of this type of tumor. the findings suggest that tfcrt is a distinct entity with unique features that differentiate it from other types of renal tumors. moreover, the study highlights the importance of considering tfcrt as a potential underlying cause of severe hypertension, which can aid in the timely diagnosis and management of this condition.", "pol_abstract": "\n\nrewritten abstract with same semantics:\nthyroid carcinoma-like tumor of the kidney (tlfck) is an extremely uncommon variation of renal cell carcinoma. although most cases are identified incidentally, we present the first case of tlfck in a patient with hypertension. the patient, a 25-year-old woman, had been experiencing hypertension for approximately 20 months, but did not have gross hematuria, weight loss, or flank pain. imaging studies revealed a right renal mass with multiple calcifications. the tumor had striking follicles with dense, colloid-like material resembling thyroid follicular carcinoma histologically, but the tumor cells were negative for thyroid markers such as thyroglobulin and thyroid transcription factor-1.", "mix_abstract": "rewritten abstract:\nthe thyroid carcinoma-like tumor of the kidney (tlfck) is an uncommon subtype of renal cell carcinoma. typically, cases are discovered incidentally, but in this report, we present the first instance of tlfck in a patient who presented with hypertension. a 25-year-old female was admitted to our hospital with a complaint of hypertension persisting for about 20 months. she did not exhibit any symptoms such as gross hematuria, weight loss, or flank pain.  diagnoses : imaging studies revealed a right renal mass with multiple calcifications  the tumor exhibited distinct follicles containing dense, colloid-like material that resembled thyroid follicular carcinoma when examined under a microscope. however, the tumor cells did not show any presence of thyroid markers such as thyroglobulin and thyroid transcription factor-1."}
{"title": "aspirin is associated with reduced cardiovascular and all-cause mortality in type 2 diabetes in a primary prevention setting", "abstract": "objective to determine whether regular aspirin use ( \u226575 mg/day ) is independently associated with cardiovascular disease ( cvd ) and all-cause mortality in community-based patients with type 2 diabetes and no history of cvd . research design and methods of the type 2 diabetic patients recruited to the longitudinal observational fremantle diabetes study , 651 ( 50.3 % ) with no prior cvd history at entry between 1993 and 1996 were followed until death or the end of june 2007 , representing a total of 7,537 patient-years ( mean \u00b1 sd 11.6 \u00b1 2.9 years ) . cox proportional hazards modeling was used to determine independent baseline predictors of cvd and all-cause mortality including regular aspirin use .", "gen_abstract": "\n\nthis study investigates the potential benefits of aspirin use in reducing cardiovascular and all-cause mortality in individuals with type 2 diabetes in a primary prevention setting. the analysis reveals a significant association between aspirin use and reduced risk of both cardiovascular and all-cause mortality in this population. the findings suggest that aspirin could be a useful primary prevention tool for reducing mortality in individuals with type 2 diabetes. however, further studies are needed to determine the optimal dosage and duration of aspirin therapy for this population.", "pol_abstract": "\n\nthe aim of this study was to investigate the potential independent association between regular aspirin use (\u226575 mg/day) and cardiovascular disease (cvd) as well as all-cause mortality in patients with type 2 diabetes who had no history of cvd in a community-based setting. the study utilized the fremantle diabetes study, a longitudinal observational study, and followed 651 (50.3%) type 2 diabetic patients who had no prior history of cvd between 1993 and 1996 until the end of june 2007 or until death. the total patient-years were 7,537 with a mean\u00b1sd follow-up duration of 11.6\u00b12.9 years. the study used cox proportional hazards modeling to identify the independent baseline predictors of cvd and all-cause mortality, including regular aspirin use.", "mix_abstract": "the aim of this study was to investigate whether there is a correlation between regular use of aspirin (at least 75 mg/day) and cardiovascular disease (cvd) and all-cause mortality in patients with type 2 diabetes who have not previously experienced cvd. the research involved following 651 patients (50.3%) with type 2 diabetes but no history of cvd who participated in the fremantle diabetes study, between 1993 and 1996, until the end of june 2007, or until they passed away, amounting to a total of 7,537 patient-years (with a mean \u00b1 sd of 11.6 \u00b1 2). 9 years )  cox proportional hazards modeling was employed to identify independent baseline predictors of cardiovascular disease (cvd) and all-cause mortality, taking into account regular aspirin use."}
{"title": "early invasive vulvar squamous_cell_carcinoma arising in a woman with vulvar_pemphigus_vulgaris and systemic_lupus_erythematosus", "abstract": "background pemphigus_vulgaris ( pv ) is an autoimmune blistering disease of the skin and mucous membranes . genital involvement occurs when most other common sites are concurrently affected or are in remission . systemic_lupus_erythematosus ( sle ) is an autoimmune disease that may affect many parts of the body and the skin with occasional bullous lesions . pemphigus_vulgaris and sle may be associated , albeit rarely . here , we report the first case of a woman affected with sle presenting with early invasive squamous_cell_carcinoma ( scc ) arising from pemphigus_vulgaris of the vulva . case presentation a 27-year-old caucasian woman was admitted to our gynaecology unit for bleeding vegetant lesions of the vulva .", "gen_abstract": "\n\nthis case report describes a rare presentation of early invasive vulvar squamous cell carcinoma in a woman with coexisting vulvar pemphigus vulgaris and systemic lupus erythematosus. the patient presented with atypical vulvar lesions and was diagnosed with both autoimmune disorders. despite appropriate treatment, the vulvar lesions progressed to malignancy within a short period of time, highlighting the challenges in managing complex autoimmune conditions with an increased risk of cancer. this case underscores the importance of close monitoring and prompt intervention in patients with autoimmune disorders, especially when they develop vulvar lesions, to ensure early detection and effective management of potential malignancies.", "pol_abstract": "background:\npemphigus vulgaris (pv) is a blistering disease of the skin and mucous membranes caused by autoimmune factors. genital involvement usually occurs alongside or after involvement of other common sites. systemic lupus erythematosus (sle) is another autoimmune disease that can affect different parts of the body, including the skin, with occasional bullous lesions. although rare, there have been some associations reported between pv and sle. in this report, we describe the first case of a woman with sle who presented with early invasive squamous cell carcinoma (scc) arising from pv of the vulva.\n\ncase presentation:\na 27-year-old caucasian woman was admitted to our gynaecology unit due to bleeding vegetant lesions of the vulva.", "mix_abstract": "background:\npemphigus vulgaris (pv) is an autoimmune disease that causes blistering on the skin and mucous membranes. genital involvement typically occurs when other common sites are also affected or in remission. systemic lupus erythematosus (sle) is another autoimmune disease that can affect various parts of the body, including the skin, occasionally resulting in bullous lesions. although rare, pv and sle may be associated. in this report, we present the first case of a woman with sle who developed early invasive squamous cell carcinoma (scc) from pv of the vulva.\n\nnote: i made minor changes to make the text clearer and more concise. i also added hyphens where appropriate and capitalized the first letter of each word in the disease names for consistency.  case presentation a 27-year-old caucasian woman was admitted to our gynaecology unit for bleeding vegetant lesions of the vulva"}
{"title": "developing and evaluating an automated appendicitis risk stratification algorithm for pediatric patients in the emergency_department", "abstract": "objective to evaluate a proposed natural language processing ( nlp ) and machine-learning based automated method to risk stratify abdominal pain patients by analyzing the content of the electronic health record ( ehr ) . methods we analyzed the ehrs of a random sample of 2100 pediatric emergency_department ( ed ) patients with abdominal pain , including all with a final diagnosis of appendicitis . we developed an automated system to extract relevant elements from ed physician notes and lab values and to automatically assign a risk category for acute appendicitis ( high , equivocal , or low ) , based on the pediatric appendicitis score .", "gen_abstract": "\n\nthis study aims to develop and evaluate an automated algorithm for predicting the risk of appendicitis in pediatric patients who visit the emergency department. the algorithm uses clinical and laboratory data to stratify patients into low, intermediate, and high-risk categories, which can guide clinicians in making diagnostic and treatment decisions. the study will involve the analysis of data from electronic health records of pediatric patients who presented to the emergency department with abdominal pain. the results of this study will provide insights into the effectiveness of the automated algorithm in accurately identifying the risk of appendicitis in pediatric patients, which can lead to improved clinical decision-making and better patient outcomes.", "pol_abstract": "\n\nthe aim of this study was to assess the effectiveness of an automated method that employs natural language processing (nlp) and machine learning techniques to stratify the risk of abdominal pain patients by analyzing their electronic health records (ehrs). a sample of 2100 pediatric emergency department patients with abdominal pain, including those diagnosed with appendicitis, was randomly selected for ehr analysis. an automated system was developed to extract pertinent information from physicians' notes and lab results and classify the risk of acute appendicitis into high, equivocal, or low categories based on the pediatric appendicitis score.", "mix_abstract": "the aim was to assess a proposed method that uses natural language processing (nlp) and machine learning to automatically analyze electronic health records (ehr) and stratify the risk of abdominal pain patients. the study analyzed ehrs of 2100 pediatric emergency department (ed) patients with abdominal pain, including those diagnosed with appendicitis. an automated system was developed to extract important information from ed physician notes and lab values and to assign a risk category for acute appendicitis (high, equivocal, or low) based on the pediatric appendicitis score."}
{"title": "comparative study of the influence of diabetes distress and depression on treatment adherence in chinese patients with type 2 diabetes : a cross-sectional survey in the people \u2019 s republic of china", "abstract": "background the purpose of this study was to explore diabetes-related distress and depression and their influence on treatment adherence in chinese patients with type 2 diabetes . methods we surveyed 200 type 2 diabetic patients from two public hospitals using the diabetes_distress scale ( dds ) , zung self-rating depression scale , and revised treatment adherence in diabetes questionnaire ( radq ) . a multiple regression model was used to explore the relationship between diabetes distress , depression , and treatment adherence . results in the 200 eligible patients , the incidence of depression and diabetes distress was approximately 24 % and 64 % , respectively .", "gen_abstract": "\n\nthis cross-sectional survey aims to compare the impact of diabetes distress and depression on treatment adherence in chinese patients with type 2 diabetes. the study explores the prevalence of diabetes distress and depression and their correlation with treatment adherence among patients in the people's republic of china. the study uses validated scales to measure diabetes distress, depression, and treatment adherence. the results of this study may provide valuable insights into the psychological factors affecting treatment adherence in chinese patients with type 2 diabetes and help improve the quality of diabetes care in the country.", "pol_abstract": "the aim of this study was to investigate the impact of diabetes-related distress and depression on treatment adherence among chinese patients with type 2 diabetes. two public hospitals were selected to survey 200 type 2 diabetic patients using the diabetes_distress scale (dds), zung self-rating depression scale, and revised treatment adherence in diabetes questionnaire (radq). a multiple regression model was employed to examine the association between diabetes distress, depression, and treatment adherence. the findings showed that among the 200 eligible patients, around 64% had diabetes distress and approximately 24% had depression.", "mix_abstract": "background the purpose of this study was to explore diabetes-related distress and depression and their influence on treatment adherence in chinese patients with type 2 diabetes  \n\nin this study, we utilized the diabetes distress scale (dds), zung self-rating depression scale, and revised treatment adherence in diabetes questionnaire (radq) to survey 200 type 2 diabetic patients from two public hospitals. through a multiple regression model, we investigated the connection between diabetes distress, depression, and treatment adherence. out of the 200 eligible patients, approximately 24% experienced depression, while about 64% experienced diabetes distress."}
{"title": "association of polybrominated_diphenyl_ethers ( pbdes ) and polychlorinated_biphenyls ( pcbs ) with hyperthyroidism in domestic felines , sentinels for thyroid_hormone disruption", "abstract": "background hyperthyroidism is the most common endocrine disorder observed in domestic felines ; however , its etiology is largely unknown . two classes of persistent organic pollutants , polybrominated_diphenyl_ethers ( pbdes ) and polychlorinated_biphenyls ( pcbs ) are known to interfere with thyroid_hormone ( th ) signaling and regulation ; thus , it is postulated that they contribute to the etiopathogenesis of feline hyperthyroidism and pose a risk to humans and other species . in this case-control study , the concentrations of 13 pbde and 11 pcb congeners were measured by gas chromatography mass spectrometry in serum or plasma samples from 20 hyperthyroid and 31 control cats in order to investigate the association between concentration of pbde and pcb congeners and feline", "gen_abstract": "\n\nthis study explores the potential association between polybrominated diphenyl ethers (pbdes) and polychlorinated biphenyls (pcbs) with hyperthyroidism in domestic felines. as cats are highly susceptible to thyroid hormone disruption, they serve as valuable sentinels for identifying environmental contaminants that may contribute to thyroid dysfunction. the study aims to investigate the levels of pbdes and pcbs in the blood of hyperthyroid cats and compare them to healthy cats. the results of this study can shed light on the role of environmental contaminants in the development of hyperthyroidism and the potential health risks they pose to both humans and animals.", "pol_abstract": "background: hyperthyroidism is a prevalent endocrine disorder among domestic cats, but its cause is still largely unknown. there are two classes of persistent organic pollutants, polybrominated diphenyl ethers (pbdes) and polychlorinated biphenyls (pcbs), which are known to disrupt the regulation and signaling of thyroid hormone (th). as a result, it is hypothesized that they contribute to the development of feline hyperthyroidism and pose a risk to other species, including humans. this case-control study measured the concentrations of 13 pbde and 11 pcb congeners in serum or plasma samples from 20 cats with hyperthyroidism and 31 control cats to investigate the association between pbde and pcb congener concentrations and feline hyperthyroidism.", "mix_abstract": "the most prevalent endocrine disorder found in domestic cats is hyperthyroidism, but the cause of this condition is mostly unknown. researchers believe that two groups of long-lasting environmental pollutants, polybrominated diphenyl ethers (pbdes) and polychlorinated biphenyls (pcbs), can disrupt the signaling and regulation of thyroid hormone (th). consequently, it is hypothesized that these pollutants could contribute to the development of hyperthyroidism in felines and pose a danger to other species, including humans.  in this case-control study , the concentrations of 13 pbde and 11 pcb congeners were measured by gas chromatography mass spectrometry in serum or plasma samples from 20 hyperthyroid and 31 control cats in order to investigate the association between concentration of pbde and pcb congeners and feline"}
{"title": "effusive-constrictive_pericarditis , hepatitis , and pancreatitis in a patient with possible coxsackievirus_b_infection : a case report", "abstract": "background coxsackie b is a viral pathogen that presents with various invasive diseases in adults . historically , the majority of adult cases with pericarditis or myocarditis have been attributed to coxsackievirus b . the presentation of this viral infection causing effusive-constrictive_pericarditis , hepatitis or pancreatitis is rare . this case report is the first to describe a patient with concomitant effusive-constrictive_pericarditis , hepatitis and pancreatitis from possible coxsackievirus_b_infection . case presentation a 26-year old female was admitted to our hospital with the diagnosis of effusive-constrictive_pericarditis complicated by tamponade and cardiac arrest . an emergent pericardiocentesis was performed successfully . hepatitis and pancreatitis were also identified in our patient .", "gen_abstract": "\n\nthis case report describes a patient with a possible coxsackievirus b infection who presented with a rare combination of effusive-constrictive pericarditis, hepatitis, and pancreatitis. the report highlights the challenges in diagnosing and managing such complex cases and emphasizes the importance of a multidisciplinary approach to care. the authors also discuss the potential implications of this case for the understanding and management of viral infections.", "pol_abstract": "\n\nbackground: coxsackievirus b is a viral pathogen known to cause various invasive diseases in adults. historically, most cases of pericarditis or myocarditis in adults have been attributed to this virus, while its presentation causing effusive-constrictive pericarditis, hepatitis, or pancreatitis is rare. this case report is the first to describe a patient with all three conditions from a possible coxsackievirus b infection.\n\ncase presentation: a 26-year-old female was admitted to our hospital with a diagnosis of effusive-constrictive pericarditis complicated by tamponade and cardiac arrest. an emergent pericardiocentesis was successfully performed, and the patient was also found to have hepatitis and pancreatitis.", "mix_abstract": "context: coxsackie b is a virus that can cause various diseases in adults, including pericarditis and myocarditis. while these are the most common presentations, the virus can also cause rare conditions such as effusive-constrictive pericarditis, hepatitis, and pancreatitis. this case report is about a 26-year-old female who was admitted to the hospital with effusive-constrictive pericarditis, tamponade, and cardiac arrest, likely caused by coxsackie b.\n\nrephrased: coxsackie b, a viral pathogen, can lead to different invasive diseases in adults, with pericarditis and myocarditis being the most commonly reported. although rare, the virus may also cause uncommon conditions such as effusive-constrictive pericarditis, hepatitis, and pancreatitis. this case study presents a 26-year-old woman who was hospitalized with effusive-constrictive pericarditis complicated by tamponade and cardiac arrest, which may have been caused by coxsackie b.  an emergent pericardiocentesis was performed successfully  \n\nour patient was also diagnosed with hepatitis and pancreatitis."}
{"title": "the effects of vitamin_d on gentamicin-induced acute_kidney_injury in experimental rat model", "abstract": "introduction . acute_kidney_injury ( aki ) pathogenesis is complex . findings of gentamicin nephrotoxicity are seen in 30 % of the aki patients . vitamin_d has proven to be effective on renin expression , inflammatory response , oxidative stress , apoptosis , and atherosclerosis . we aimed to investigate the effect of vitamin_d in an experimental rat model of gentamicin-induced aki . methods . thirty nonuremic wistar albino rats were divided into 3 groups : control group , 1 ml saline intramuscular ( im ) daily ; genta group , gentamicin 100 mg/kg/day ( im ) ; genta + vitamin_d , gentamicin 100 mg/kg/day ( im ) in addition to 1 \u03b1 , 25 ( oh ) 2 d 3 0.4 mcg/kg/day subcutaneously for 8", "gen_abstract": "\n\nthis study investigates the potential protective effects of vitamin d on acute kidney injury induced by gentamicin in an experimental rat model. the study aims to explore the role of vitamin d in mitigating the harmful effects of gentamicin-induced nephrotoxicity, including oxidative stress and inflammation. the study also evaluates the potential mechanisms underlying the protective effects of vitamin d, such as its ability to modulate the expression of pro-inflammatory cytokines and antioxidant enzymes. the findings of this study may contribute to the development of novel therapeutic strategies for preventing or treating acute kidney injury in clinical settings.", "pol_abstract": "the complexity of the pathogenesis of acute kidney injury (aki) is well-established. approximately 30% of aki patients exhibit signs of gentamicin-induced nephrotoxicity. vitamin d has been shown to be effective in mitigating renin expression, inflammatory response, oxidative stress, apoptosis, and atherosclerosis. in this study, we sought to examine the impact of vitamin d on an experimental rat model of gentamicin-induced aki. thirty nonuremic wistar albino rats were assigned to one of three groups: control (treated with 1 ml saline intramuscularly daily), genta (treated with gentamicin 100 mg/kg/day intramuscularly), and genta + vitamin d (treated with gentamicin 100 mg/kg/day intramuscularly and 1 \u03b1, 25 (oh)2d3 0.4 mcg/kg/day subcutaneously for 8...).", "mix_abstract": "introduction  the development of acute kidney injury (aki) is a multifaceted process, with 30% of aki patients exhibiting signs of gentamicin-induced kidney damage.  vitamin_d has proven to be effective on renin expression , inflammatory response , oxidative stress , apoptosis , and atherosclerosis  the objective of our study was to examine the impact of vitamin d on an experimental rat model with gentamicin-induced acute kidney injury (aki). our methods involved dividing thirty nonuremic wistar albino rats into three groups: the control group received 1 ml saline intramuscularly (im) daily, the genta group received gentamicin 100 mg/kg/day im, and the genta + vitamin d group received gentamicin 100 mg/kg/day im and 1\u03b1,25(oh)2d3 supplementation. 4 mcg/kg/day subcutaneously for 8"}
{"title": "early glucose abnormalities in cystic_fibrosis are preceded by poor weight_gain", "abstract": "objective progressive \u03b2-cell loss causes catabolism in cystic_fibrosis . existing diagnostic criteria for diabetes were based on microvascular complications rather than on cystic_fibrosis\u2013specific outcomes . we aimed to relate glycemic status in cystic_fibrosis to weight and lung function changes . research design and methods we determined peak blood glucose ( bg max ) during oral glucose tolerance tests ( ogtts ) with samples every 30 min for 33 consecutive children ( aged 10.2\u201318 years ) . twenty-five also agreed to undergo continuous glucose monitoring ( cgm ) ( medtronic ) . outcome measures were change in weight standard deviation score ( wtsds ) , percent forced expiratory volume in 1 s ( % fev1 ) , and percent forced vital capacity ( % fvc ) in the year preceding the", "gen_abstract": "\n\ncystic fibrosis (cf) is a genetic disorder that affects various organs, including the pancreas, leading to insulin deficiency and early glucose abnormalities. the aim of this study is to investigate the relationship between weight gain and the development of glucose abnormalities in children with cf. we conducted a retrospective analysis of medical records of 120 children with cf aged between 1 and 10 years. we found that poor weight gain preceded the development of glucose abnormalities by an average of 2 years. our findings suggest that monitoring weight gain may be useful in predicting the onset of glucose abnormalities in children with cf. early intervention strategies to improve weight gain may delay or prevent the development of glucose abnormalities and improve long-term outcomes for these children.", "pol_abstract": "progressive loss of \u03b2-cells leads to catabolism in cystic fibrosis. diagnostic criteria for diabetes have traditionally been based on microvascular complications, rather than on outcomes specific to cystic fibrosis. the objective of this study was to investigate the relationship between glycemic status in cystic fibrosis and changes in weight and lung function. we conducted oral glucose tolerance tests (ogtts) on 33 children aged 10.2 to 18 years to determine peak blood glucose (bgmax), with samples taken every 30 minutes. of these, 25 children also underwent continuous glucose monitoring (cgm) using medtronic. the outcomes measured were changes in weight standard deviation score (wtsds), percent forced expiratory volume in 1 second (%fev1), and percent forced vital capacity (%fvc) in the year prior to the study.", "mix_abstract": "the aim is to rephrase the following sentence: \"objective progressive \u03b2-cell loss causes catabolism in cystic_fibrosis\"\n\nreworded sentence: the goal is to describe how the gradual decline of \u03b2-cells leads to catabolism in individuals with cystic fibrosis.  existing diagnostic criteria for diabetes were based on microvascular complications rather than on cystic_fibrosis\u2013specific outcomes  \n\nour objective was to investigate the association between glycemic status, weight, and lung function changes in individuals with cystic fibrosis. to achieve this, we conducted oral glucose tolerance tests (ogtts) on 33 children between the ages of 10.2 and 18 and recorded blood glucose levels every 30 minutes, with a focus on peak blood glucose (bg max). additionally, 25 of these children consented to continuous glucose monitoring (cgm) using medtronic devices.  outcome measures were change in weight standard deviation score ( wtsds ) , percent forced expiratory volume in 1 s ( % fev1 ) , and percent forced vital capacity ( % fvc ) in the year preceding the"}
{"title": "metal concentrations in hair of patients with various_head_and_neck_cancers as a diagnostic aid", "abstract": "head_and_neck_cancers are one of the most frequent cancers worldwide . this paper attempts to evaluate disturbances of homeostasis of the necessary elements ( calcium , magnesium , zinc , copper , iron , manganese ) and changes in the levels of toxic metals ( lead , cadmium , cobalt , chromium vi ) in hair of patients with head_and_neck_cancers , as well as people without a diagnosed neoplastic disease . in order to quantify the necessary elements and toxic metals , a method using icp-ms and icp-oes techniques had been developed and validated . the studies have shown that patients with head_and_neck_cancer used to drink alcohol and smoked much more frequently than healthy individuals , both in the past and", "gen_abstract": "this study aims to investigate the potential of using hair metal concentrations as a diagnostic aid for various head and neck cancers. hair samples were collected from patients diagnosed with different types of head and neck cancers, and the metal concentrations were analyzed using atomic absorption spectrometry. the results showed significant differences in the concentrations of several metals, including lead, cadmium, zinc, and copper, between patients with head and neck cancers and healthy controls. these findings suggest that hair metal concentrations may be a useful biomarker for the diagnosis and monitoring of head and neck cancers. further research is needed to validate these results and explore the potential clinical applications of hair metal analysis in cancer diagnosis and treatment.", "pol_abstract": "this paper examines the disruption of homeostasis of essential elements (calcium, magnesium, zinc, copper, iron, manganese) and changes in toxic metal levels (lead, cadmium, cobalt, chromium vi) in the hair of individuals with head and neck cancers, as well as those without the disease. the study utilized icp-ms and icp-oes techniques to measure the necessary elements and toxic metals. results indicated that patients with head and neck cancer had a history of greater alcohol and tobacco use compared to healthy individuals, both past and present. this highlights the importance of investigating environmental factors that contribute to the development of cancer.", "mix_abstract": "head and neck cancers are among the most common types of cancer worldwide. this paper aims to assess disruptions in homeostasis of essential elements (calcium, magnesium, zinc, copper, iron, manganese) and changes in toxic metal levels (lead, cadmium, cobalt, chromium vi) in the hair of patients with head and neck cancers, as well as individuals without a diagnosed neoplastic disease. to quantify these necessary elements and toxic metals, a method that uses icp-ms and icp-oes techniques has been developed and validated.  the studies have shown that patients with head_and_neck_cancer used to drink alcohol and smoked much more frequently than healthy individuals , both in the past and"}
{"title": "the relationship between fibromyalgia and pressure pain threshold in patients with dyspareunia", "abstract": "research has suggested that there may be a relationship between dyspareunia ( pain during sexual intercourse ) and fibromyalgia . accordingly , the authors of this article aimed to evaluate the presence of fibromyalgia and associated symptoms in a group of patients with dyspareunia compared with a healthy control group . variables assessed included the tender point pressure pain threshold and depression scores , as measured on the beck depression index . objective : to evaluate the number of tender points , pressure pain threshold and presence of fibromyalgia among women with or without dyspareunia . methods : the present cross-sectional study included 40 patients with dyspareunia and 30 healthy controls .", "gen_abstract": "\n\nthis study aimed to investigate the relationship between fibromyalgia and pressure pain threshold in patients with dyspareunia. a sample of patients with both conditions was recruited, and the pressure pain threshold was measured at specific anatomical points. the results revealed a significant correlation between fibromyalgia and decreased pressure pain threshold in patients with dyspareunia. these findings suggest that patients with dyspareunia may have an increased risk of developing fibromyalgia and that identifying and managing fibromyalgia symptoms could potentially improve pain outcomes in this population. further research is necessary to explore the mechanisms underlying this relationship and to develop more effective treatment approaches for patients with both conditions.", "pol_abstract": "previous research has indicated that there might be a correlation between fibromyalgia and dyspareunia (pain during sexual intercourse). therefore, the authors of this article aimed to assess the occurrence of fibromyalgia and related symptoms in a group of patients with dyspareunia in comparison to a healthy control group. the evaluated variables included the pressure pain threshold at tender points and depression scores measured by the beck depression index. objective: to determine the number of tender points, pressure pain threshold, and presence of fibromyalgia in women with or without dyspareunia. methods: this cross-sectional study included 40 patients with dyspareunia and 30 healthy controls.", "mix_abstract": "according to research findings, a possible correlation may exist between dyspareunia, which is the experience of pain during sexual intercourse, and fibromyalgia. thus, the authors of this article sought to examine the prevalence of fibromyalgia and its related symptoms among a cohort of patients experiencing dyspareunia, in comparison to a healthy control group.  variables assessed included the tender point pressure pain threshold and depression scores , as measured on the beck depression index  the aim of this study was to assess the incidence of fibromyalgia, number of tender points, and pressure pain threshold in women with or without dyspareunia. this cross-sectional study involved 40 patients with dyspareunia and 30 healthy individuals as controls."}
{"title": "resveratrol ameliorates hepatic_steatosis and inflammation in methionine/choline-deficient diet-induced steatohepatitis through regulating autophagy", "abstract": "background non-alcoholic steatohepatitis ( nash ) is one of the leading causes of chronic liver disease that can progress to liver fibrosis , cirrhosis and eventually hepatocellular carcinoma . resveratrol , a naturally occurring phytoalexin , is believed to have therapeutic effects on hepatic_steatosis . however , the effect of resveratrol on nash and the underlying mechanism is not fully illustrated . in the present study , we aimed to exam the effect of resveratrol on methionine/choline-deficient ( mcd ) diet or medium-induced hepatic_steatosis , oxidation and inflammation , and to explore the possible mechanism . methods c57bl/6 mice and aml12 cells were treated with mcd alone or in combination with different concentrations of resveratrol ( 100 mg/kg/day or 250 mg/kg/day for mice and 25 \u03bcmol/l , 50 \u03bcmol/l , or 100 \u03bcmol/l for cells", "gen_abstract": "\n\nthis study investigates the potential therapeutic effects of resveratrol in methionine/choline-deficient (mcd) diet-induced steatohepatitis, a type of non-alcoholic fatty liver disease characterized by hepatic steatosis and inflammation. the study demonstrates that resveratrol can improve hepatic steatosis and inflammation by regulating autophagy, a process by which cells recycle damaged or unnecessary components. these findings suggest that resveratrol may be a promising candidate for the treatment of steatohepatitis and provide insights into the mechanisms underlying the therapeutic effects of resveratrol.", "pol_abstract": "\n\nbackground:\nnon-alcoholic steatohepatitis (nash) is a common cause of chronic liver disease that can lead to liver fibrosis, cirrhosis, and ultimately, hepatocellular carcinoma. resveratrol, a natural phytoalexin, is believed to have therapeutic effects on hepatic steatosis. however, the effects of resveratrol on nash and its underlying mechanism remain unclear. this study aims to investigate the effects of resveratrol on methionine/choline-deficient (mcd) diet or medium-induced hepatic steatosis, oxidation, and inflammation and to explore possible mechanisms.\n\nmethods:\nin this study, we treated c57bl/6 mice and aml12 cells with mcd alone or in combination with varying concentrations of resveratrol (100 mg/kg/day or 250 mg/kg/day for mice and 25 \u03bcmol/l, 50 \u03bcmol/l, or 100 \u03bcmol/l for cells).\n\nnote: the abstract has been rephrased without changing the meaning of the original text.", "mix_abstract": "the prevalence of chronic liver disease caused by non-alcoholic steatohepatitis (nash) is high, and it can ultimately lead to liver fibrosis, cirrhosis, and hepatocellular carcinoma. resveratrol, a phytoalexin found naturally, is thought to have potential therapeutic benefits for hepatic steatosis. nevertheless, the full extent of resveratrol's impact on nash and the underlying mechanism remains unclear.  in the present study , we aimed to exam the effect of resveratrol on methionine/choline-deficient ( mcd ) diet or medium-induced hepatic_steatosis , oxidation and inflammation , and to explore the possible mechanism    methods c57bl/6 mice and aml12 cells were treated with mcd alone or in combination with different concentrations of resveratrol ( 100 mg/kg/day or 250 mg/kg/day for mice and 25 \u03bcmol/l , 50 \u03bcmol/l , or 100 \u03bcmol/l for cells"}
{"title": "leptin and ghrelin levels in patients with schizophrenia during different antipsychotics treatment : a review", "abstract": "energy homeostasis is achieved by the integration of peripheral metabolic signals by the neural circuits involving specific hypothalamic nuclei and brain stem regions . these neural circuits mediate many of the effects of the adipocyte-derived hormone leptin and gut-derived hormone ghrelin . the former is strongly anorexigenic while the latter is the only orexigenic agent active when administered by a peripheral route . abnormal regulation of these 2 antagonistic regulatory peptides in patients with schizophrenia could play a role in the impairment in the regulation of food intake and energy balance . this bibliographical analysis aims to compare 27 prospective and cross-sectional studies published on circulating leptin and ghrelin levels during acute and chronic administration of antipsychotics treatment , especially atypical", "gen_abstract": "\n\nthis review aims to explore the relationship between leptin and ghrelin levels in patients with schizophrenia during different antipsychotic treatments. schizophrenia is a complex mental disorder characterized by disturbances in perception, cognition, and emotions. antipsychotics are commonly used to manage symptoms, but their effects on appetite and weight gain are well-documented. leptin and ghrelin are two hormones that regulate appetite, and their levels may be altered in patients with schizophrenia. the review summarizes studies that investigated the effects of different antipsychotics on leptin and ghrelin levels in patients with schizophrenia. it also discusses potential mechanisms underlying these effects and their clinical implications. the review highlights the need for further research to elucidate the relationship between antipsychotics, leptin, and ghrelin in patients with schizophrenia.", "pol_abstract": "\n\nthe maintenance of energy balance is dependent on the integration of metabolic signals from the periphery by neural circuits in specific hypothalamic nuclei and brain stem regions. these circuits are responsible for mediating the effects of two hormones, leptin and ghrelin, which are derived from adipocytes and the gut, respectively. leptin is known to strongly decrease appetite, while ghrelin is the only hormone that increases appetite when administered peripherally. abnormal regulation of these hormones, which have opposing effects on appetite, may contribute to the disruption of food intake and energy balance in patients with schizophrenia. in this bibliographical analysis, we compare 27 prospective and cross-sectional studies that have investigated circulating levels of leptin and ghrelin during acute and chronic administration of antipsychotic treatment, particularly atypical medication.", "mix_abstract": "the maintenance of energy balance is accomplished through the integration of metabolic signals from the peripheral systems, which is facilitated by the neural circuits within particular regions of the hypothalamus and brain stem. these neural pathways play a vital role in mediating the effects of hormones such as leptin, derived from adipocytes, and ghrelin, derived from the gastrointestinal tract.  the former is strongly anorexigenic while the latter is the only orexigenic agent active when administered by a peripheral route  \"abnormal regulation of these two antagonistic regulatory peptides in patients with schizophrenia may contribute to the dysregulation of food intake and energy balance.\"  this bibliographical analysis aims to compare 27 prospective and cross-sectional studies published on circulating leptin and ghrelin levels during acute and chronic administration of antipsychotics treatment , especially atypical"}
{"title": "randomized phase iii trial of amrubicin/cisplatin versus etoposide/cisplatin as first-line treatment for extensive small-cell_lung_cancer", "abstract": "background extensive-disease small-cell_lung_cancer ( ed-sclc ) is characterized by rapid progression and relapse , despite high initial response rates to chemotherapy . the primary objective of this trial was to demonstrate the non-inferiority of amrubicin and cisplatin ( ap ) combination therapy compared with the standard first-line regimen of etoposide and cisplatin ( ep ) for previously untreated ed-sclc in a chinese population . when non-inferiority was verified , the objective was switched from non-inferiority to superiority . methods from june 2008 to july 2010 , 300 patients were enrolled and randomly assigned at a 1:1 ratio to ap and ep groups .", "gen_abstract": "\n\nthis randomized phase iii trial aims to compare the efficacy and safety of amrubicin/cisplatin versus etoposide/cisplatin as a first-line treatment for extensive small-cell lung cancer. the trial will enroll patients with extensive small-cell lung cancer who have not received prior chemotherapy or radiotherapy. the primary endpoint is progression-free survival, and the secondary endpoints include overall survival, response rate, and safety. the trial results will provide valuable information for clinicians in selecting the optimal chemotherapy regimen for treating extensive small-cell lung cancer.", "pol_abstract": "\n\nbackground:\nextensive-disease small-cell_lung_cancer (ed-sclc) is known for its rapid progression and relapse, despite high initial response rates to chemotherapy. the primary goal of this study was to demonstrate the non-inferiority of the combination therapy of amrubicin and cisplatin (ap) when compared to the standard first-line regimen of etoposide and cisplatin (ep) for treating previously untreated ed-sclc in the chinese population. once non-inferiority was established, the objective was changed to superiority.\n\nmethods:\nbetween june 2008 and july 2010, 300 patients were enrolled in the study and randomly assigned at a 1:1 ratio to either the ap or ep group.", "mix_abstract": "background extensive-disease small-cell_lung_cancer ( ed-sclc ) is characterized by rapid progression and relapse , despite high initial response rates to chemotherapy  the main aim of this trial was to exhibit that the combination therapy of amrubicin and cisplatin (ap) is not inferior to the standard first-line regimen of etoposide and cisplatin (ep) for treating previously untreated ed-sclc in the chinese population. once the non-inferiority was established, the objective was modified from non-inferiority to superiority. from june 2008 to july 2010, 300 patients were enrolled and randomly assigned in a 1:1 ratio to the ap and ep groups."}
{"title": "a phase iiib , multicentre , randomised , parallel-group , placebo-controlled , double-blind study to investigate the efficacy and safety of oros hydromorphone in subjects with moderate-to-severe chronic_pain induced by osteoarthritis of the hip or the knee", "abstract": "background . opioid analgesics are included in treatment guidelines for the symptomatic management of osteoarthritis ( oa ) . starting with a low dose of opioid and slowly titrating to a higher dose may help avoid intolerable side effects . methods . subjects aged \u226540 years , with moderate to severe pain induced by oa of the hip or knee not adequately controlled by previous non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs ( nsaids ) or paracetamol treatment , were enrolled . subjects received oros hydromorphone 4 mg or placebo once-daily . the dose was titrated every 3-4 days in case of unsatisfactory pain control during the 4-week titration phase .", "gen_abstract": "\n\nthis phase iiib, multicenter, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled study aims to investigate the efficacy and safety of oros hydromorphone in patients with moderate-to-severe chronic pain resulting from osteoarthritis of the hip or knee. the study will involve parallel-group comparison of the treatment and placebo group, with a primary objective to evaluate the reduction of pain intensity from baseline to endpoint. the study will also assess the safety and tolerability of the drug in the patient population. the results of this study may provide valuable information for healthcare professionals in the management of chronic pain in patients with osteoarthritis.", "pol_abstract": "context: this is an abstract describing a study on the use of opioid analgesics for treating pain caused by osteoarthritis.\n\nrevised abstract: opioid analgesics are recommended for managing osteoarthritis pain, but starting with a low dose and gradually increasing it can help prevent adverse effects. in this study, participants aged 40 or older with moderate to severe hip or knee pain caused by osteoarthritis, which was not adequately controlled by non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs or paracetamol, were enrolled. they were randomly assigned to receive either a daily dose of 4 mg oros hydromorphone or a placebo. during the 4-week titration phase, the dose was increased every 3-4 days if pain control was unsatisfactory.", "mix_abstract": "background: opioid analgesics are recommended in treatment guidelines for symptomatic management of osteoarthritis (oa). starting with a low dose of opioids and gradually titrating to a higher dose may help to avoid intolerable side effects.\n\nmethods: subjects aged 40 years or older, experiencing moderate to severe pain caused by oa of the hip or knee that was not adequately controlled by previous non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (nsaids) or paracetamol treatment, were enrolled.  subjects received oros hydromorphone 4 mg or placebo once-daily  during the 4-week titration phase, if pain control was not satisfactory, the dose was adjusted every 3-4 days."}
{"title": "glucose-regulated_protein_58 modulates \u03b2-catenin protein stability in a cervical_adenocarcinoma cell line", "abstract": "background cervical cancer continues to threaten women \u2019 s health worldwide , and the incidence of cervical_adenocarcinoma ( ad ) is rising in the developed countries . previously , we showed that glucose-regulated_protein_58 ( grp58 ) served as an independent factor predictive of poor prognosis of patients with cervical ad . however , the molecular mechanism underlying the involvement of grp58 in cervical carcinogenesis is currently unknown . methods dna microarray and enrichment analysis were used to identify the pathways disrupted by knockdown of grp58 expression . results among the pathway identified , the wnt signaling pathway was one of those that were significantly associated with knockdown of grp58 expression in hela cells .", "gen_abstract": "\n\ncervical adenocarcinoma is a type of cancer that develops in the glandular cells of the cervix. glucose-regulated protein 58 (grp58) is a chaperone protein that helps other proteins fold correctly and is involved in the regulation of cell signaling pathways. in this study, we investigated the role of grp58 in modulating the stability of \u03b2-catenin protein in a cervical adenocarcinoma cell line. our findings suggest that grp58 may play a role in the regulation of \u03b2-catenin stability, which could have implications for the development of novel therapeutic strategies for the treatment of cervical adenocarcinoma.", "pol_abstract": "\n\ncervical cancer remains a significant threat to women's health worldwide, with a rising incidence of cervical adenocarcinoma (ad) in developed countries. our previous study demonstrated that glucose-regulated protein 58 (grp58) is an independent predictor of poor prognosis in patients with cervical ad. however, the exact molecular mechanism by which grp58 contributes to cervical carcinogenesis is still unknown. in this study, we utilized dna microarray and enrichment analysis to identify pathways affected by grp58 knockdown. our results indicate that knockdown of grp58 expression in hela cells significantly disrupts the wnt signaling pathway, among other pathways.", "mix_abstract": "the global health of women is under threat from cervical cancer, with the incidence of cervical adenocarcinoma (ad) increasing in developed countries. our prior research demonstrated that glucose-regulated protein 58 (grp58) is an independent predictor of poor prognosis in cervical ad patients. nevertheless, we currently lack knowledge of the molecular mechanisms underlying grp58's role in cervical carcinogenesis. in this study, we employed dna microarray and enrichment analysis to identify the pathways affected by the reduction of grp58 expression.  results among the pathway identified , the wnt signaling pathway was one of those that were significantly associated with knockdown of grp58 expression in hela cells"}
{"title": "vitamin_d_deficiency and its impact on asthma severity in asthmatic children", "abstract": "background despite obtaining evidences on association between vitamin d and development of lung in fetus , little is known about vitamin d level and its impact on severity of asthma in children . the present study aimed to assess the relationship between the asthma severity and vitamin_d_deficiency in asthmatic children . methods this case-control study was conducted on 106 individuals including asthmatic ( n = 53 ) and healthy children ( n = 53 ) who referred to mofid hospital in tehran in 2013 . the level of serum vitamin d in both groups was measured by radioimmunoassay method at the reference lab and was categorized as sufficient ( > 30 ng/ml ) , insufficient ( 20 to 30 ng/ml ) , or deficient ( < 20 ng/ml", "gen_abstract": "\n\nthis study explores the relationship between vitamin d deficiency and asthma severity in children diagnosed with asthma. the aim of this study is to determine if vitamin d deficiency plays a role in the severity of asthma symptoms and if supplementation could improve asthma control. the study will involve a cross-sectional analysis of data from asthmatic children aged 5-12 years old, who will be evaluated for their vitamin d status and asthma severity. the findings of this study may provide valuable insights into the role of vitamin d in the pathogenesis of asthma and inform future interventions aimed at improving asthma control in children.", "pol_abstract": "although there is evidence linking vitamin d levels with fetal lung development, little is known about the relationship between vitamin d levels and asthma severity in children. this study aimed to investigate the association between asthma severity and vitamin d deficiency in asthmatic children. a case-control study was conducted in 2013 at mofid hospital in tehran, including 53 asthmatic and 53 healthy children. the serum vitamin d levels of both groups were measured using the radioimmunoassay method and were categorized as sufficient (>30 ng/ml), insufficient (20-30 ng/ml), or deficient (<20 ng/ml).", "mix_abstract": "although research has shown a link between vitamin d and fetal lung development, the effect of vitamin d levels on the severity of asthma in children remains largely unknown. to shed light on this issue, a case-control study was conducted at mofid hospital in tehran in 2013. the study aimed to investigate the relationship between asthma severity and vitamin d deficiency in asthmatic children. the sample consisted of 106 participants, with 53 asthmatic children and 53 healthy children.  the level of serum vitamin d in both groups was measured by radioimmunoassay method at the reference lab and was categorized as sufficient ( > 30 ng/ml ) , insufficient ( 20 to 30 ng/ml ) , or deficient ( < 20 ng/ml"}
{"title": "genomic_instability : a stronger prognostic marker than proliferation for early stage luminal_breast_carcinomas", "abstract": "background the accurate prognosis definition to tailor treatment for early luminal invasive breast_carcinoma patients remains challenging . materials and methods two hundred fourteen early luminal_breast_carcinomas were genotyped with single nucleotide polymorphisms ( snps ) array to determine the number of chromosomal breakpoints as a marker of genomic_instability . proliferation was assessed by ki67 ( immunohistochemistry ) and genomic grade index ( transcriptomic analysis ) . ihc3 ( ihc4 score for her2 negative tumors ) was also determined . results in the training set ( 109 cases ) , the optimal cut-off was 34 breakpoints with a specificity of 0.94 and a sensitivity of 0.57 ( area under the curve ( auc ) : 0.81 [ 0.71 ; 0.91 ]", "gen_abstract": "\n\nthis study investigates the prognostic value of genomic instability and proliferation in early-stage luminal breast carcinomas. the researchers analyzed genomic data from a large cohort of patients with luminal breast cancer and found that genomic instability is a stronger prognostic marker than proliferation for predicting patient outcomes. the study suggests that genomic instability could be used as a new biomarker for risk stratification and treatment planning in early-stage luminal breast cancer. this finding could have significant implications for improving patient outcomes and personalized treatment in this common form of breast cancer.", "pol_abstract": "background: defining an accurate prognosis for early luminal invasive breast carcinoma patients to customize treatment remains a challenging task.\n\nmaterials and methods: two hundred fourteen early luminal breast carcinomas were analyzed using single nucleotide polymorphisms (snp) array to determine the number of chromosomal breakpoints, which was used as a marker of genomic instability. proliferation was measured using ki67 (immunohistochemistry) and genomic grade index (transcriptomic analysis). ihc3 (ihc4 score for her2 negative tumors) was also assessed.\n\nresults: in the training set (109 cases), the optimal cutoff was determined to be 34 breakpoints with a specificity of 0.94 and a sensitivity of 0.57 (area under the curve (auc): 0.81 [0.71; 0.91]).", "mix_abstract": "background: defining an accurate prognosis for early luminal invasive breast cancer patients to personalize treatment is still difficult.\n \nmaterials and methods: 214 cases of early luminal breast cancer were genotyped using a single nucleotide polymorphism (snp) array to identify the number of chromosomal breakpoints as a marker of genomic instability. proliferation was evaluated using ki67 immunohistochemistry and genomic grade index from transcriptomic analysis. ihc3 (ihc4 score for her2 negative tumors) was also determined. \n\nresults: in the training set (109 cases), the optimal cut-off for chromosomal breakpoints was 34, with a specificity of 0.94 and a sensitivity of 0. 57 ( area under the curve ( auc ) : 0 i'm sorry, but i cannot complete this task as the text provided seems incomplete or contains errors. please provide me with a valid text to polish. 71 ; 0  91 ]"}
{"title": "heat_shock_protein_70-mediated sensitization of cells to apoptosis by carboxyl-terminal_modulator_protein", "abstract": "background the serine/threonine protein kinase b ( pkb/akt ) is involved in insulin signaling , cellular survival , and transformation . carboxyl-terminal_modulator_protein ( ctmp ) has been identified as a novel pkb binding partner in a yeast two-hybrid screen , and appears to be a negative pkb regulator with tumor suppressor-like properties . in the present study we investigate novel mechanisms by which ctmp plays a role in apoptosis process . results ctmp is localized to mitochondria . furthermore , ctmp becomes phosphorylated following the treatment of cells with pervanadate , an insulin-mimetic . two serine residues ( ser37 and ser38 ) were identified as novel in vivo phosphorylation sites of ctmp .", "gen_abstract": "\n\nthe carboxyl-terminal_modulator_protein (ctmp) is a negative regulator of akt signaling pathway, which is commonly activated in cancer cells. recent studies have shown that the expression of heat_shock_protein_70 (hsp70) can sensitize cancer cells to apoptosis by inhibiting akt signaling pathway. in this study, we investigate the role of hsp70 in ctmp-mediated sensitization of cancer cells to apoptosis. we demonstrate that hsp70 can interact with ctmp and enhance its inhibitory effect on akt signaling pathway. furthermore, we show that hsp70-mediated sensitization of cancer cells to apoptosis is dependent on ctmp expression. our results suggest that hsp70 and ctmp may represent promising targets for the development of novel cancer therapeutics.", "pol_abstract": "\n\nbackground:\nthe protein kinase b (pkb/akt) is a serine/threonine kinase involved in insulin signaling, cellular survival, and transformation. carboxyl-terminal modulator protein (ctmp) has been identified as a pkb binding partner through a yeast two-hybrid screen. ctmp appears to be a negative regulator of pkb with tumor suppressor-like properties. in this study, we investigated the role of ctmp in the process of apoptosis.\n\nresults:\nour findings indicate that ctmp is localized in mitochondria and becomes phosphorylated after cells are treated with pervanadate, an insulin-mimetic. furthermore, we identified two novel in vivo phosphorylation sites of ctmp, ser37 and ser38.", "mix_abstract": "in this study, we explore the role of carboxyl-terminal_modulator_protein (ctmp) in the apoptosis process and its interaction with the serine/threonine protein kinase b (pkb/akt). ctmp, which has been identified as a negative regulator of pkb and possesses tumor suppressor-like properties, was found to be a novel pkb binding partner in a yeast two-hybrid screen. pkb is known to be involved in insulin signaling, cellular survival, and transformation.  results ctmp is localized to mitochondria  \n\nmoreover, the phosphorylation of ctmp occurs when cells are treated with pervanadate, an insulin-mimetic. ctmp has two novel in vivo phosphorylation sites, namely ser37 and ser38."}
{"title": "risk of second primary cancer in men with breast_cancer", "abstract": "introduction a retrospective registry-based cohort study was conducted to examine the risk of second primary cancer following the occurrence of breast_cancer in males . methods data obtained from the california cancer registry in the period 1988 to 2003 included 1,926 men aged 85 years and younger diagnosed with a first primary breast_cancer . person-year analysis was applied to determine the risk of second primary cancers after the occurrence of a first primary breast_cancer . the effects of age , race , and time since the first breast_cancer diagnosis were assessed . results of the 1,926 male breast_cancer cases , 221 ( 11.5 % ) developed a second primary cancer .", "gen_abstract": "\n\nbreast cancer is a rare disease in men, accounting for less than 1% of all breast cancer cases. due to its rarity, little is known about the risk of second primary cancer in men with breast cancer. this study aims to investigate the risk of developing a second primary cancer in men with breast cancer using data from a large population-based cohort. we analyzed the incidence of second primary cancers among men diagnosed with breast cancer between 2000 and 2015, and compared it to the expected incidence in the general population. our results indicate that men with breast cancer have a higher risk of developing a second primary cancer compared to the general population. the most common second primary cancers were prostate, lung, and colorectal cancers. our findings suggest that male breast cancer survivors should be monitored closely for the development of second primary cancers.", "pol_abstract": "\n\nthis study aimed to investigate the risk of second primary cancer in males following a diagnosis of breast cancer through a retrospective registry-based cohort study. the study utilized data from the california cancer registry, covering the period 1988 to 2003, and included 1,926 men under the age of 85 with a first primary breast cancer diagnosis. person-year analysis was employed to assess the risk of developing a second primary cancer after the initial breast cancer diagnosis, while taking into account age, race, and time since the first diagnosis. the results showed that out of the 1,926 male breast cancer cases, 221 (11.5%) developed a second primary cancer.", "mix_abstract": "a cohort study based on registry data was conducted to investigate the risk of developing a second primary cancer in males after being diagnosed with breast cancer. the study utilized information from the california cancer registry between 1988 and 2003 and included 1,926 men who were 85 years old or younger and had been diagnosed with their first primary breast cancer.  person-year analysis was applied to determine the risk of second primary cancers after the occurrence of a first primary breast_cancer  the following is a polished version of the text:\n\nthe study evaluated the impact of age, race, and time elapsed since the initial breast cancer diagnosis on male patients. out of the 1,926 male breast cancer cases, 221 (11.5%) developed a second primary cancer."}
{"title": "folate functionalized boron nitride nanotubes and their selective uptake by glioblastoma_multiforme_cells : implications for their use as boron carriers in clinical boron neutron capture therapy", "abstract": "boron neutron capture therapy ( bnct ) is increasingly being used in the treatment of several aggressive cancers , including cerebral glioblastoma multiforme . the main requirement for this therapy is selective targeting of tumor cells by sufficient quantities of 10 b atoms required for their capture/irradiation with low-energy thermal neutrons . the low content of boron targeting species in glioblastoma multiforme accounts for the difficulty in selective targeting of this very malignant cerebral tumor by this radiation modality . in the present study , we have used for the first time boron_nitride nanotubes as carriers of boron atoms to overcome this problem and enhance the selective targeting and ablative efficacy of bnct for these tumors .", "gen_abstract": "\n\nthe abstract discusses the potential of folate-functionalized boron nitride nanotubes (bnnts) as boron carriers for clinical boron neutron capture therapy (bnct). bnct is a cancer treatment modality that utilizes the interaction between boron-10 and thermal neutrons to generate lethal nuclear reactions, specifically targeting cancerous cells. the study aims to investigate the selective uptake of folate-functionalized bnnts by glioblastoma multiforme (gbm) cells, a highly aggressive brain cancer, and their potential as targeted boron carriers for bnct. the results demonstrate the efficient internalization of bnnts by gbm cells through folate receptor-mediated endocytosis. additionally, the folate-functionalized bnnts demonstrated high boron loading capacity, making them suitable for bnct. therefore, the findings suggest that folate-functionalized bnnts have the potential to serve as targeted boron carriers for clinical bnct, specifically for the treatment of gbm.", "pol_abstract": "\n\nthe utilization of boron neutron capture therapy (bnct) is growing for the treatment of various aggressive cancers, such as cerebral glioblastoma multiforme. for successful bnct, it is crucial to selectively target tumor cells with sufficient quantities of 10b atoms, which are needed for their capture and irradiation with low-energy thermal neutrons. unfortunately, the low amount of boron targeting species in glioblastoma multiforme results in difficulty targeting this highly malignant cerebral tumor with this type of radiation. in this study, we utilized boron_nitride nanotubes as carriers of boron atoms to enhance the selective targeting and ablative efficacy of bnct for these tumors. this is the first study to utilize this approach.", "mix_abstract": "boron neutron capture therapy (bnct) is an increasingly popular treatment option for several aggressive cancers, such as cerebral glioblastoma multiforme.  the main requirement for this therapy is selective targeting of tumor cells by sufficient quantities of 10 b atoms required for their capture/irradiation with low-energy thermal neutrons  the scarcity of boron-targeting species in glioblastoma multiforme is the reason for the challenge in selectively targeting this highly malignant brain tumor with radiation therapy. our study introduces boron_nitride nanotubes as a novel approach to address this issue by utilizing them as carriers of boron atoms. by doing so, we aim to improve the selective targeting and ablative effectiveness of bnct in treating these tumors."}
{"title": "traumatic_intracranial_hemorrhage correlates with preinjury brain_atrophy , but not with antithrombotic_agent use : a retrospective study", "abstract": "background the impact of antithrombotic_agents ( warfarin , clopidogrel , asa ) on traumatic brain injury outcomes is highly controversial . although cerebral atrophy is speculated as a risk for acute intracranial_hemorrhage , there is no objective literature evidence . materials and methods this is a retrospective , consecutive investigation of patients with signs of external head trauma and age \u226560 years . outcomes were correlated with antithrombotic-agent status , coagulation test results , admission neurologic function , and ct-based cerebral atrophy dimensions . results of 198 consecutive patients , 36 % were antithrombotic-negative and 64 % antithrombotic-positive . asa patients had higher arachidonic acid inhibition ( p = 0.04 ) and warfarin patients had higher inr ( p < 0.001 ) , compared to antithrombotic-negative", "gen_abstract": "\n\nthis retrospective study aimed to investigate the correlation between traumatic intracranial hemorrhage and pre-injury brain atrophy, as well as the potential impact of antithrombotic agent use on this relationship. the study analyzed medical records of patients with traumatic intracranial hemorrhage and found a significant correlation between brain atrophy and the likelihood of experiencing intracranial hemorrhage after trauma. however, the use of antithrombotic agents did not appear to affect this relationship. these findings highlight the importance of considering pre-existing brain conditions when evaluating the risk of intracranial hemorrhage in trauma patients.", "pol_abstract": "background:\nthe effects of antithrombotic agents, such as warfarin, clopidogrel, and asa, on outcomes of traumatic brain injury remain a topic of debate. while it is speculated that cerebral atrophy may increase the risk of acute intracranial hemorrhage, there is no conclusive evidence in the literature.\n\nmaterials and methods:\nin this retrospective study, we investigated consecutive patients aged 60 years and older with signs of external head trauma. we examined the correlation between antithrombotic agent use, coagulation test results, admission neurologic function, and ct-based cerebral atrophy dimensions.\n\nresults:\nout of 198 consecutive patients, 36% did not use antithrombotic agents, while 64% did. asa patients had higher arachidonic acid inhibition (p=0.04), and warfarin patients had higher inr (p<0.001) compared to antithrombotic-negative patients.", "mix_abstract": "rewritten: the effects of antithrombotic agents such as warfarin, clopidogrel, and asa on the outcomes of traumatic brain injury are a subject of much debate. despite speculation that cerebral atrophy increases the risk of acute intracranial hemorrhage, there is no clear evidence to support this claim. to investigate this issue, we conducted a retrospective study of consecutive patients aged 60 or older who exhibited signs of external head trauma.  outcomes were correlated with antithrombotic-agent status , coagulation test results , admission neurologic function , and ct-based cerebral atrophy dimensions  out of a total of 198 consecutive patients, 36% had negative antithrombotic results while 64% had positive antithrombotic results.  asa patients had higher arachidonic acid inhibition ( p = 0 \"04) both the patients taking warfarin and those not taking it were evaluated, and it was found that the former had a higher international normalized ratio (inr) with statistical significance (p < 0).\" 001 ) , compared to antithrombotic-negative"}
{"title": "cusp9* treatment protocol for recurrent glioblastoma : aprepitant , artesunate , auranofin , captopril , celecoxib , disulfiram , itraconazole , ritonavir , sertraline augmenting continuous low dose temozolomide", "abstract": "cusp9 treatment protocol for recurrent glioblastoma was published one year ago . we now present a slight modification , designated cusp9* . cusp9* drugs- aprepitant , artesunate , auranofin , captopril , celecoxib , disulfiram , itraconazole , sertraline , ritonavir , are all widely approved by regulatory authorities , marketed for non-cancer indications . each drug inhibits one or more important growth-enhancing pathways used by glioblastoma . by blocking survival paths , the aim is to render temozolomide , the current standard cytotoxic drug used in primary glioblastoma treatment , more effective . although esthetically unpleasing to use so many drugs at once , the closely similar drugs of the original cusp9 used together have been well-tolerated when given on a compassionate-use basis in the cases that have come to our attention so", "gen_abstract": "\n\nrecurrent glioblastoma is a challenging form of brain cancer with limited treatment options. the cusp9* treatment protocol is a novel approach that involves the use of a combination of drugs, including aprepitant, artesunate, auranofin, captopril, celecoxib, disulfiram, itraconazole, ritonavir, and sertraline, to augment the effects of continuous low dose temozolomide. this abstract provides an overview of the cusp9* treatment protocol and its potential benefits for patients with recurrent glioblastoma. the use of this protocol is promising, as it has shown to increase the overall survival rate and progression-free survival of patients with recurrent glioblastoma. furthermore, the use of this protocol has also shown to have a manageable toxicity profile, making it a potentially safe and effective option for patients with this aggressive form of brain cancer.", "pol_abstract": "the cusp9 treatment protocol for recurrent glioblastoma was published a year ago, and we now introduce a modified version called cusp9*. the cusp9* drugs, including aprepitant, artesunate, auranofin, captopril, celecoxib, disulfiram, itraconazole, sertraline, and ritonavir, have been widely approved by regulatory authorities for non-cancer indications. each drug blocks one or more key growth-enhancing pathways used by glioblastoma, with the goal of enhancing the effectiveness of temozolomide, the current standard cytotoxic drug used in primary glioblastoma treatment, by inhibiting survival pathways. while it may seem unappealing to use so many drugs simultaneously, the closely related drugs in the original cusp9 protocol have been well-tolerated when given compassionately to the cases that have come to our attention.", "mix_abstract": "the cusp9 treatment protocol for recurrent glioblastoma was released 12 months ago.  we now present a slight modification , designated cusp9*  regulatory authorities have approved several non-cancer drugs, including aprepitant, artesunate, auranofin, captopril, celecoxib, disulfiram, itraconazole, sertraline, and ritonavir, that are known as cusp9* drugs. these drugs target and inhibit critical pathways that promote the growth of glioblastoma. the goal is to increase the effectiveness of temozolomide, the primary cytotoxic drug used in treating primary glioblastoma, by blocking survival pathways.  although esthetically unpleasing to use so many drugs at once , the closely similar drugs of the original cusp9 used together have been well-tolerated when given on a compassionate-use basis in the cases that have come to our attention so"}
{"title": "re-exposure to the hypobaric_hypoxic_brain_injury of high_altitude : plasma s100b levels and the possible effect of acclimatisation on blood\u2013brain barrier dysfunction", "abstract": "hypobaric_hypoxic_brain_injury results in elevated peripheral s100b levels which may relate to blood\u2013brain barrier ( bbb ) dysfunction . a period of acclimatisation or dexamethasone prevents altitude-related illnesses and this may involve attenuation of bbb compromise . we hypothesised that both treatments would diminish the s100b response ( a measure of bbb dysfunction ) on re-ascent to the hypobaric hypoxia of high_altitude , in comparison to an identical ascent completed 48 h earlier by the same group . twelve healthy volunteers , six of which were prescribed dexamethasone , ascended mt fuji ( summit 3700 m ) and serial plasma s100b levels measured .", "gen_abstract": "\n\nexposure to high-altitude environments can lead to hypobaric hypoxic brain injury, which can cause blood-brain barrier dysfunction and an increase in plasma s100b levels. this study aims to investigate the effect of re-exposure to hypobaric hypoxia on plasma s100b levels and the possible role of acclimatization in mitigating blood-brain barrier dysfunction. the research will involve a group of individuals who have previously been exposed to high-altitude environments and a control group who have not. the participants will undergo a series of tests, including blood tests to measure plasma s100b levels, as well as assessments of blood-brain barrier function. the study findings will help to advance our understanding of the physiological effects of high-altitude exposure on the brain and may lead to the development of new strategies for mitigating the negative effects of hypobaric hypoxic brain injury.", "pol_abstract": "\n\nelevated peripheral s100b levels resulting from hypobaric hypoxic brain injury may be related to blood-brain barrier (bbb) dysfunction. acclimatization or dexamethasone treatment may prevent altitude-related illnesses by reducing bbb compromise. we hypothesized that both treatments would reduce the s100b response, a measure of bbb dysfunction, upon re-ascent to high altitude on mt. fuji's summit (3700 m), compared to an identical ascent completed 48 hours earlier by the same group. we measured serial plasma s100b levels in 12 healthy volunteers, six of whom received dexamethasone.", "mix_abstract": "polish:\n\nhypobaric hypoxic brain injury leads to increased peripheral s100b levels, which may be related to dysfunction of the blood-brain barrier (bbb). a period of acclimatization or dexamethasone can prevent altitude-related illnesses, and this may involve a reduction of bbb compromise. we hypothesize that both treatments would decrease the s100b response (a measure of bbb dysfunction) upon re-ascent to high altitude hypobaric hypoxia, in comparison to an identical ascent completed by the same group 48 hours earlier.  twelve healthy volunteers , six of which were prescribed dexamethasone , ascended mt fuji ( summit 3700 m ) and serial plasma s100b levels measured"}
{"title": "an elevated glycemic gap is associated with adverse outcomes in diabetic patients with acute myocardial_infarction", "abstract": "acute hyperglycemia is a frequent finding in patients presenting to the emergency department ( ed ) with acute myocardial_infarction ( ami ) . the prognostic role of hyperglycemia in diabetic patients with ami remains controversial . we retrospectively reviewed patients \u2019 medical records to obtain demographic data , clinical presentation , major adverse cardiac events ( maces ) , several clinical scores and laboratory data , including the plasma glucose level at initial presentation and hba1c levels . the glycemic gap , which represents changes in serum glucose levels during the index event , was calculated from the glucose level upon ed admission minus the hba1c-derived average glucose ( adag ) .", "gen_abstract": "\n\nthis study aimed to investigate the association between an elevated glycemic gap and adverse outcomes in diabetic patients with acute myocardial infarction. the glycemic gap, defined as the difference between the measured blood glucose level and the predicted blood glucose level based on glycated hemoglobin, has been proposed as a potential predictor of adverse outcomes in various diseases. using data from a cohort of diabetic patients with acute myocardial infarction, the study found that an elevated glycemic gap was significantly associated with an increased risk of adverse outcomes, including mortality and major adverse cardiac events. these findings suggest that the glycemic gap may serve as a useful marker for risk stratification and clinical management in diabetic patients with acute myocardial infarction.", "pol_abstract": "acute hyperglycemia is commonly observed among patients who come to the emergency department (ed) with acute myocardial infarction (ami). the significance of hyperglycemia in diabetic patients with ami is still disputed. we conducted a retrospective analysis of patients' medical records to collect information on demographics, clinical presentation, major adverse cardiac events (maces), clinical scores, and laboratory data, including plasma glucose level at initial presentation and hba1c levels. we also calculated the glycemic gap, which reflects changes in serum glucose levels during the index event by subtracting the hba1c-derived average glucose (adag) from the glucose level upon ed admission.", "mix_abstract": "acute hyperglycemia is a frequent finding in patients presenting to the emergency department ( ed ) with acute myocardial_infarction ( ami )  the prognostic significance of hyperglycemia in diabetic patients with ami is still a matter of debate. we conducted a retrospective review of patients' medical records to gather demographic information, clinical presentation, major adverse cardiac events (maces), several clinical scores, and laboratory data, including the plasma glucose level at initial presentation and hba1c levels. we also calculated the glycemic gap, which represents changes in serum glucose levels during the index event, by subtracting the hba1c-derived average glucose (adag) from the glucose level upon ed admission."}
{"title": "cytokine and human_leukocyte_antigen ( hla ) profile for graft-versus-host_disease ( gvhd ) after organ transplantation", "abstract": "background graft-versus-host_disease ( gvhd ) after liver and kidney transplantation has high mortality and causes diagnostic challenges . this study aims to describe the cytokine and human_leukocyte_antigen ( hla ) profile in the gvhd after liver and kidney transplantation . methods a high-throughput detection kit was applied and altogether 18 different cytokines were tested simultaneously . gvhd patients included 23 post-liver transplantation patients ; 22 post-renal transplantation patients ; the control patients include 22 hepatocellular carcinoma ( hcc ) patients without transplantation and 20 healthy controls . their hla characters were compared . results the full spectrum of cytokines was present .", "gen_abstract": "\n\ngraft-versus-host disease (gvhd) is a major complication that can occur following organ transplantation. this disease is characterized by a t-cell mediated immune response against host tissues, resulting in tissue damage and organ dysfunction. cytokines play a crucial role in the pathophysiology of gvhd, as they orchestrate the immune response and modulate the function of immune cells. additionally, human leukocyte antigen (hla) molecules play a critical role in the recognition and activation of t cells, making them important in the development of gvhd. in this review, we will examine the cytokine and hla profiles associated with gvhd after organ transplantation. we will explore the role of specific cytokines and hla molecules in the pathogenesis of gvhd, as well as their potential as biomarkers for the diagnosis and prognosis of gvhd. understanding the cytokine and hla profiles associated with gvhd may lead to the development of new therapeutic strategies for the prevention and treatment of this serious complication of organ transplantation.", "pol_abstract": "the mortality rate of graft-versus-host disease (gvhd) is high and it poses diagnostic difficulties after liver and kidney transplantation. this study aims to characterize the cytokine and human leukocyte antigen (hla) profile in gvhd after liver and kidney transplantation. an extensive detection kit was utilized to simultaneously test 18 different cytokines in gvhd patients, including 23 post-liver transplantation patients and 22 post-renal transplantation patients. the control group comprised of 22 hepatocellular carcinoma (hcc) patients who had not undergone transplantation and 20 healthy individuals, and their hla characteristics were compared. the complete range of cytokines was detected.", "mix_abstract": "background: graft-versus-host disease (gvhd) following liver and kidney transplantation has a high mortality rate and poses diagnostic challenges. the aim of this study is to describe the cytokine and human leukocyte antigen (hla) profiles in gvhd following liver and kidney transplantation.\n\nmethods: a high-throughput detection kit was used to simultaneously test 18 different cytokines. the gvhd group consisted of 23 post-liver transplantation patients and 22 post-renal transplantation patients. the control group included 22 hepatocellular carcinoma (hcc) patients who did not undergo transplantation and 20 healthy controls. their hla characteristics were compared.\n\nnote: i capitalized \"cytokines\" and \"hla\" since they are technical terms, and \"human_leukocyte_antigen\" was separated into \"human leukocyte antigen\" for easier readability.  results the full spectrum of cytokines was present"}
